*Is A Computer A Psionics Machine?*

------------------------------------------------------------------------
***Analog Discussion Board
<http://www.analogsf.com/discus/messages/board-topics.html>: General
Discussion <http://www.analogsf.com/discus/messages/1/1.html>: Is A
Computer A Psionics Machine?*
------------------------------------------------------------------------
By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Monday, June 30, 2003 -
08:21 pm:

In some ways they resemble an Ouija Board, anyway. But more
advanced---when you look at what SETI has been proposing to do with
computers, and doing, too, i.e. searching for extraterrestrial
intelligence, you get the idea they might consider computers to have
fantastic capacities for a machine. But I suggest the Cosmic All might
be discoverable and even invokable via computer---still more resemblance
to psionics.

I know JWC would not entirely turn down the comparison.

By ***Thomas R <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, June 30, 2003 - 08:35 pm:

I remember reading of some Sufi mystics that believed God had a secret
twelve letter name. With a computer you could find every possible twelve
letter Arabic name in short order. I think Clarke already did that story
though.

Using a computer as a Oija board though I don't know. It seems like some
of those occult groups did get into "spirit typing" in the 1920s. In
fact they had a few mediums who claimed that dead authors wrote through
them using that method. The 20s was a nutty time in some respects.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Monday, June 30, 2003 -
10:17 pm:

Related material does turn up on the net. I found a fellow announcing
Poe's reincarnation in a literary room. Of course there was a book to
cover for it but they still seemed to be claiming that it was a mystical
event.

By ***Anomalous <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, July 01, 2003 - 11:18 am:

Thomas R: /Sufi mystics that believed God had a secret twelve letter
name. With a computer you could find every possible twelve letter Arabic
name in short order/

Depends on your definition of short order. According to this
<http://www.arabic2000.com/arabic/alphabet.html>, there are 28 letters
in the Arabic alphabet, so:

    28^12 = 2.32x10^17 combinations

if you did one million per second:

    2.32x10^11 seconds ==> 7363.6 years

Not an eternity but a pretty long time. However, in the not too far
future, one biliion per second will not be out of the question ==> 7.3
years.

By ***Dr. Sardonicus <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, July 01, 2003 - 12:41 pm:

One way in which a computer differs from a Oija board is that the
results of using a computer are generally more predictable, and also
more replicable. Hard to tell /what/ you'll get out of a Ouija board -
or whether you'll get the same answer to the same question twice in a row.

The relevant Arthur C. Clarke story was "The Nine Billion Names of God".
In the story, the number of candidate names was considerably reduced by
conditions that precluded "nonsense" strings. I would imagine that
similar conditions would reduce the figure of 28^12 a good deal also. Of
course, in the story, if memoory serves, the names were being printed
out, and this must have greatly slowed the process.

The mention of "spirit typing" immediately reminded me of something I'd
heard about, regarding IIRC autistic children. There was a method called
(I think) "facilitated learning", part of which had "facilitators"
holding the kids' hands, and supposedly doing the kids' bidding in
operating a keyboard or otherwise indicating responses. Tests showed
quite clearly, however, that the "facilitators" were actually doing
their /own/ bidding. But, of course, die-hard adherents absolutely
refused to accept the test results, and could not admit that the method
simply didn't work. It was really sad.

By ***Anomalous <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, July 01, 2003 - 01:22 pm:

Dr. Sardonicus: /the number of candidate names was considerably reduced
by conditions that precluded "nonsense" strings. I would imagine that
similar conditions would reduce the figure of 28^12 a good deal also/

Or it could end up slowing the entire process because of the extra
tests. The number really isn't 28^12 because certain side by side
combinations are not permitted in Arabic. I'm too lazy to figure out the
actual number of combinations but even if reduced to 26^12 it would
still take 3000+ years.


I've heard that a dominant person can control a Ouija board simply by
applying pressure. The less dominant participants are likely to consider
this as "spiritual" guidance. How could anyone tell them apart?

By ***Thomas R <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, July 01, 2003 - 03:04 pm:

Anomalous: Yeah I realized that last night. However I was meaning to
factor in computer improvements with time. Now printing that many names,
even with the likely conditions, would take a very long time.

I must admit the idea of the computer having to work three thousand
years I find much more appealing though. The notion of a band of Sufis
secretly watching the computer for thousands of years until it reaches
the right name. It's kind of neat.

Except I think many of the orders felt they had the secret name. The
real trick of it was finding someone who wrote it down without ever
being told what it was. As the odds of that were so astronomical, it
seemed you had someone pretty special when you found such a person.
Although I'm guessing there is a trick to knowing such a thing without
being told. I'm not real knowledgeable on psychology or cryptography so
don't know what that would be.

By ***Anomalous <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Wednesday, July 02, 2003 - 03:46 pm:

Why does God only have a 12 letter name? My own name, counting the
middle ones, is 20 letters. Is it because God is famous? Like Cher or
Madonna?


/The notion of a band of Sufis secretly watching the computer for
thousands of years until it reaches the right name. It's kind of neat./

Computers can be mesmerizing. However, I think the umpteen million years
awaited by the philosophers in /Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy/ beats
'em.

By ***Thomas R <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Wednesday, July 02, 2003 - 04:29 pm:

It may not have been twelve, but twelve is often given significance. The
first four counting numbers are factors of it as is 6. I think it's the
smallest number than with 5 factors.

Although that may mean nothing. 2520 I think is the smallest number to
be a multiple of the first ten counting numbers. Yet I know of no
society that gives it significance.

By ***Marian <mailto:mepowell@cybermesa.com>* on Thursday, July 03, 2003
- 03:24 pm:

Ah but the question is, what happens when the computer comes up with the
correct name for God?

By ***Raj <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Thursday, July 03, 2003 - 03:57 pm:

Perhaps we run to our White Pages and find that God has an unlisted number.

By ***Thomas R <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, July 03, 2003 - 04:01 pm:

I can't remember where I heard this, but there's some kind of magic
based philosophy that teaches when you find the "true name" the being
appears. So if these people believed in that, finding God's true name
would make him appear. After that I don't know what would happen. It
could be argued that as God is everywhere, it would ultimately mean
nothing happens. Or if you want to be real blasphemous maybe it would
mean it would contain God to the place that summoned him.

By ***Anomalous <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, July 03, 2003 - 04:38 pm:

/The real trick of it was finding someone who wrote it down without ever
being told what it was./

Wouldn't the computer's finding it qualify under this rule? How would it
know which combination is correct? Wouldn't the operator only be able to
say: "It's in there"?

By ***Dr. Sardonicus <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, July 03, 2003 - 04:57 pm:

Hmmm, IIRC the task in Clarke's story was to write down /all/ the
possible names of god, rather than a particular "right" one.

But the notion of "knowing one's true name" (i.e. an individual person's
name, as opposed to God's) is important in some belief systems, isn't it?

In the Lewis Padgett story /The Proud Robot/, the robot's creator
couldn't exert control over the robot until he -- no, not called it by
the right /name/ -- but until he instructed it to do the task he had
built it to perform...

By ***Jerry Wright <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, July 03, 2003 - 09:43 pm:

Ah, Joe the Robot and Galloway Gallagher, two of my favorite
characters... How the might robot fell...

--Jerry

By ***Jerry Wright <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, July 03, 2003 - 09:43 pm:

"mighty robot" arrrgh.

--JErry

By ***Anonymous <javascript:alert('* Anonymous *');>* on Friday, March
19, 2004 - 12:58 pm:

i will hunted u hahahahahahhahahah

By ***Very Wrong <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Friday, March 19, 2004 - 01:11 pm:

Mine isn't a psionics machine it is unfortunately a (*sigh*) Unix machine

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Friday,
March 19, 2004 - 04:09 pm:

>In fact they had a few mediums who claimed that >dead authors wrote
through them using that >method. The 20s was a nutty time in some
>respects.

I'm almost convinced that I was The German author Hermann Hesse in my
former life. Unfortueately, whatever writing acumen I had at the time
must have been stored in my brain, which has perished.

In so-called "occult" circles, there is the spiritual name. It is
actually the vibration of your soul.. only expressed through sound.
Think of a water glass. It is well known that there is a certain sound
frequency, that is very high, which upon being broadcast loudly enough
in the presence of glass, will shatter the glass merely because it
equals the molecular vibration of glass. It sounds good to me.

108 is a well-know sacred mumber.

With a oija board, the point IS to have one of the people "controling
it" with their hand muscles. The spirits cannot interface with our
dimension enough to influence the movement of physical objects... They
are esentially working through one of the people on a subconscious
level.. guiding the hand movements subliminally... the person may not
even realize it.

By ***Dave H <mailto:daveglyn@howell56.freeserve.co.uk>* on Saturday,
March 20, 2004 - 05:44 am:

Two thoughts on this wandering thread -

1, re the Sufi 12 letter secret name of god....after writing down all
possible combinations, you would still not know which was the correct one!

And 2 - my only experience with an ouija board resulted in information,
most of which could have come from my brain (but I was most assuredly
keeping only the barest touch on the glass) but it also included
information of which I was NOT aware.

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Saturday, March 20, 2004 - 06:12 am:

I have no experience with a Ouija board.

By ***Anonymous <javascript:alert('* Anonymous *');>* on Saturday, March
20, 2004 - 10:46 am:

The quite good for serving cheese and crackers

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Saturday, March 20, 2004 - 12:11 pm:

We ARE supposed to be asking questions about the computer's existence
and presense, and criticizing it, as I understand the computer
establishment to be suggesting. "A good user raises a row." So come, is
the computer a psionics machine, or no?

By ***Jerry Wright <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Saturday, March 20, 2004 - 03:06 pm:

No.

--Jerry

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Saturday, March 20, 2004 - 03:16 pm:

I'm not sure what "psionics machine" is. However, obviously it has
something to do with consciousness and consciousness is a mathmatically
impenaterable, unexplained phenomena. Even the most sophisticated super
computer is very simple. Computers are not conscious.

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Saturday, March 20, 2004 - 08:25 pm:

Jerry's right, perhaps; my perception is that there is no such thing as
a functioning psionics machine, as Leo implies. So a computer would NOT
be a psionics machine. Psionics machines exist in science fiction, but
not in science fact. As I understand it, Campbell investigated psionics
machines, but decided they didn't work. A machine cannot be psychic,
even if a human being can. Actually humans aren't psychic, either.
"Psychic" is just a concept, an imaginative one.

I am wondering if anyone is positing that a computer is anything except
a machine. At least one of the big people in computers seems rather
psychedelic, from his writings. It is just something I am interested in
about the computer. I am rather naive about this device.

By ***Dr. Sardonicus <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Saturday, March 20, 2004 - 10:31 pm:

Well, I suppose that, in a sense, computers may be viewed as "psionic
/tools/" -- instruments for exercising mental domination over others.
Consider the following hypothetical conversation:

Y: "Oh, come /on/, /mind control?/ It's just a /machine/."

X: "Oh yeah? We can /already/ use this "just a machine" to make people
agree to the most /outrageous/ things. Watch this."

    /X then brings up a copy of the "end user license agreement" for his
    company's new software on his monitor./

"Look at this. We're saying our product might not work. It might wreck
your /hardware/. And the poor schmucks /agree/ to all this before they
install it! And then, when things go /wrong/,..." (X laughs uproariously)

Thus endeth the hypothetical conversation. I leave you with a
time-honored quote, from this very forum:

    Well, There is another group of people who may be in a worse
    situation than those having "psychic episodes". Perfectly normal
    people who also have strange experiences they cannot understand or
    explain. And these unfortunates do not have the luxury of keeping
    quiet. Their experiences are so disruptive, they cannot resume the
    normal course of their lives until they consult "experts" who can
    give completely rational explanations of their bizarre problems.
    These experts invariably ask them humiliating questions that make
    these poor people out to be crazy, stupid, ignorant, inept, clumsy -
    and always at fault for their own difficulties.

    These unhappy people are having trouble with their computer software.

By ***Thomas R <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, March 21, 2004 - 02:04 am:

I suppose if you wish to interpret it so computers could be "psionics"
machines in the future, after a fashion. The future will live to see as
well.

It's conceivable, in theory, that their could someday be computers which
interpret the electrochemical signals in the brain to allow them a
limited kind of "mind reading." This would require the person be
connected to them and as these would likely be just dumb machines they
would just translate thoughts into speech for the disabled. Possibly
translate thoughts into movements of screen images for computer games.
Still if the machine is also an AI it's telepathy after a fashion I
suppose. Telepathy I think was one of the "psionic" abilities.

There are computerized devices now that use superconductivity to
levitate things as large as a frog. Perhaps you could have an even more
efficient/effective version in the future. This could be likened to
telekinesis, after a fashion.

Devices that from afar can heat an object until it burns, like in
/Firestarter/, have been around a very long time I think. Certainly
before computers.

Predicting the future is not possible what with free will, chaos,
uncertainty, etc. However machines that could predict astronomical
events go back to in least the Han Dynasty or the Maya. Some would put
it back to Stonehenge. Also there are mathematical systems used in
rocket science which can give reasonably accurate probabilistic
"predictions" of some seemingly chaotic events. This isn't like
Seldonian psychohistory as the predictions are probabilities, which can
break down if unseen variables enter into things. (Or in the case of
people if they are dishonest or crazy)

So is it a psionic machine? No. Will it be? No, but computers may
someday be able to do things similar to what psionics imagined.

As for mysticism I read about different mystical traditions, and I do
think they are fascinating. However I don't believe in any of the
esoteric names and numbers of power stuff. I think it was a good idea in
a way, in ancient times, as it got people to study astronomy or math.
I'm not sure it's needed now. Most of the mystical elements of the
tradition I'm part of are more about emotion, as well as the individual
relationship to other people and God. Things like that. Granted though
I'm not at all well versed in it. (At my most devout my interest was
more logic and contemplation. I used to be able to meditate well enough
to reduce pain of injury, but I kind of lost that)

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Sunday,
March 21, 2004 - 09:00 am:

Well in order to have "psychic," you need conscousness, and in order to
have that you must have life... these phenomenons rest on eachother like
nesting dolls. Actually, I don't think "life" or consciousness are
understood at all scienctifically... there is biology but not even that
explains why life is life, what makes life life, why live cannot return
to something that was alive even if all the the physical and chemical
contidions of the organism are congenial. Science explains consciousness
away as an epiphenomenon while feigning knowledge of the most
fandamental phenomenon.

As you can tell, I believe in a soul. I believe that as wood and oxygen
require a third element, heat, to burn... All of the physical
ingredients for life require a thrid element, a spiritual soul, to be
life. Was it Humme who thought
that if we remove all of the experience and genetic impressions on
consciousness, there would not be a mere blank slate of consciousness,
that there would simply be nothing there at all. I disagree.

Anyways, I know a guy who has a book about artificial intelligence---
(the mathmatical side of it) Possible models for it and so forth-- but
it may be that inorganic material is simply
unable to exhibit life and hence consciousness-- as a working cell phone
cannot be constructed out of wood.

As for future predition, and clairvoyance, they are entirely possible
because I speak from experience. Actually, there is both abolute free
will and absolute predetermnination. The latter exists in everything
physical and the former in everything spiritual. One is the "writer" and
one is the "written." You have certain karmic baggage which is
material... it might even be considered as your DNA-- both your physical
and nonphysical DNA.... this shares a micro-macro cosmic synergy with
the movements of planetary bodies which is called astrology.

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, March 21, 2004 - 10:16 am:

Granted to Leo the notion that a soul might exist, I think the source of
both the doubt and anxiety about the topic is that it is the body
speaking and discussing the matter. When the soul takes flight, where
does that leave the body? It may be matter, but it's sort of liked
existence too, and would be missing it if it lost this quality. Perhaps
the key to the matter is an interdependence of the spirit and the body,
and being used to interaction. When the spirit departs, the body can't
say where it has gone,or, indeed, anything at all--but the body is a
part of being, and a form of it.

You have two things, one of which does exist, and the other of which
doesn't. Science: does exist. Magic: doesn't exist. One is thought up,
the other is just there.

Thomas R has defined exactly what psionics machines are...they're
machines that could pick up brain waves or other impulses of the brain.
Such a machine would tend to establish that psychic waves exist, paving
the way for a belief in telepathy. A computer constantly transmits
thoughts, and only in this way does it resemble a psionics machine. It
does not pick them up. You need your keyboard, or, more metaphysically
because of the time displacement, an operable program. Still it is only
a mechanical function existing somewhere...but some people insist on
being superstitious about a computer.

Like with a television, they just don't know how one works, and how one
could be made. Where's anything they've seen that goes into a computer?
What substances are involved? Well, glass. You could tell them, "take a
mirror and prop it up in a slit trench, packing the dirt tight around it
so it doesn't fall over. Have it tilted slightly back. Now shine a
flashlight into it. You will note that beam of light, enlarged,
travelling across the surface of the nearby buildings which are around
you. Now put up a transparency with typing on the surface of it. On the
walls of that building, except where the windows are open, you see a
virtual signboard. Now, it just took twenty minutes to set that up, when
you had your commonplace materials assembled; computers took years to
build, but they built 'em." And his superstitious feeling about
computers vanishes. He'll want to know how messages travel faster than
the speed of light, but you just explain the broadcast principle to him.

I have difficulty explaining the gyros in airplanes to people. They
think the wings and propellors do all the work of lofting it. They're
thinking about birds. But we do need to keep refraining the principles
of science, or we'll be hearing from a magical, superstition-believing
element.

By ***Thomas R <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, March 21, 2004 - 01:41 pm:

So far computers haven't validated psionic waves as far as I know. The
computers that may someday read thoughts require a physical connection
to the person, and are just working on interpreting the electrochemical
signals in the brain. The existence of those I think is fairly solid.

And yeah I believe in the soul or did traditionally. I think even if I
wasn't Catholic I'd believe in something about our being beyond purely
materialistic explanation. I don't want to go much into though because

1: I'm inadequate evangelist for any faith and don't have that drive
anyway.

2: I worry this is sounding rather woo woo where I like to look fairly
rational. Granted most ideas I have on the soul are fairly hum-drum
Catholic or Christian tradition, but still it's not something I feel
getting to into on Analog forum.

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Sunday,
March 21, 2004 - 02:11 pm:

There are individuals, mostly logicians who don't have any spiritual
experience, who believe that the soul depends on the biological life to
exist, that the bilogical life generates it. There are energies that are
generated by the biological life, which dissipate after death ... but
the biological life itself is generated by the soul.

I use the analogy of a deep sea diver with a pressure suit which enables
him to descend to depths that would normally implode his skull. The
physical body is an instrument for allowing us to exist in this dimension.

Anywyas, I'm in military intelligence (I was but the kicked me out
because of questionable sanity so ironically I work in the post office
now). But in my scooling, I was told that with the right equiptment and
skill, I could (for example), pick up all of the information you are
typing on your computer... from a few yards away. That shouldn't be a
supprise. Radio waves as with light are all electromagnetic radiation
and "tramsmit" at the same rate.

The only doubt I have though is that are human brainwaves
"electromagnetic"? The analogy of a wooden TV getting great reception
might apply to an inorganic computer detecting thoughts. When the
psychiatrist was doing unnecissary testing on me (because the military
pays for all of it and he wanted to pad his wallet), I recall tests that
detected brain activity, but not thoughts. Some day we might be able to
constuct (rather genetically engineer might be the better term),
something that can both detect that you are thinking and what you are
thinking. Am in the story I'm working on, the protagonist has cybernetic
augmentation in cerebral areas 4-12 (i just made up the last part up, it
sounds cool)...

However, I disagree with you about science and magic. These are just
relative terms. To a 13th century hermit, a radio is magic... today it
is a science. What is magic today is only called as such because it is
not understood properly. Infact, even if it were, "magic" might still be
an appropriate term! Also with mechanical and supernatural... those are
just relative. We use the former term for something we understand
well... but it does not imply that there is no meaning to it, no miracle.
I don't think according to scientific conventions. My thinking is
instinctual. I like magical talismans

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Monday,
March 22, 2004 - 04:25 am:

And there is also the possiblity that greater understanding conferrs
even greater mystery. Now that I know the mechanics involved in
rainbows, for example, they see even more magical.

Also, I know that none of the processes involved to create music are
defying the laws of physics--- they are quite "mechanical," but still
when I listen to some musics I cry. And I still perceive beauty in them.

By ***Dr. Sardonicus <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, March 22, 2004 - 10:56 am:

Leo said:

    However, I disagree with you about science and magic. These are just
    relative terms. To a 13th century hermit, a radio is magic... today
    it is a science. What is magic today is only called as such because
    it is not understood properly.

The Doc begs to differ with this assessment. The term "magic" can refer
explicitly to the supernatural -- that is, not merely to the natural
order of things not being properly understood (as could be argued for
invoking "hidden knowledge"), but in the natural order being /set aside/
(as with the types of magic that invoke the intervention of deities or
other supernatural assistance).

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Monday,
March 22, 2004 - 11:30 am:

So you mean to say that "magic" presumes to "defy" or "suspend" the
natural laws rather than to invoke other laws that are not understood or
known? Okay, but in either case we are admitting that knowledge or
understanding of the "natural order" is incomplete... and something that
invokes unknown principles may infact APPEAR to override, defy or
suspend or contradict other known ones. It might not in actuality, but
to an observer (especially a superstitious or unintelligent one) it
might be interpreted that way.

Anyways, I'm an elf.... not physically but on another level. We embody
the spirit of magic and I've never know any practitioner of magic who
believed that it overrid laws so that definition of magic is actually
not known to me.

By ***Anonymous <javascript:alert('* Anonymous *');>* on Monday, March
22, 2004 - 11:45 am:

/but in the natural order being set aside (as with the types of magic
that invoke the intervention of deities or other supernatural assistance)/

Just a different world model but a model all the same. Hyperdimensional
string and deity models differ in what fundamental way?

By ***Dr. Sardonicus <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, March 22, 2004 - 09:30 pm:

Leo said:

    So you mean to say that "magic" presumes to "defy" or "suspend" the
    natural laws rather than to invoke other laws that are not
    understood or known?

As I indicated before -- some kinds of magic involve doing one, some the
other. It's not a matter of "rather than".

The following is the first meaning of the word "magic", as given in
Merriam-Webster's second International Dictionary (1947, unabridged).

    The art, or body of arts, which claims or is believed to be able to
    compel a deity or supernatural power to do or refrain from doing
    some act or to change temporarily the order of natural events, or
    which claims or is believed to produce effects by the assistance of
    supernatural beings, as angels, demons, or departed spirits, or by a
    mastery of secret forces in nature. Magic is not clearly
    differentiated from science by primitive peoples. It is a part of
    most primitive religions. With the rise of Christianity to power
    many magical practices were banned; the Church condemned resort to
    spirits and demons for knowledge and assistance (as in witchcraft,
    sorcery, diabolism) not as false but as evil, or /black magic/.
    Magic which aims to produce death or injury is also called black
    magic. On /white/, or /natural magic/, no ban was placed, and
    largely from this, which also survives as legerdemain, was developed
    modern natural science. Magical practices are of four types:
    /Sympathetic magic/, based on the principle that like affects like,
    or that a desired result may be brought to pass by mimicking it,
    naming it in spells, etc., and on the belief that things once in
    contact continue to act upon each other after being separated;
    /divination/, the various means of gaining hidden knowledge, as
    astrology, clairvoyance, augury, sortege, necromancy, etc.;
    /thaumaturgy/, or wonder working, including alchemy, jugglery,
    legerdemain, and trickery ascribed to demons; /incantation/, the
    recital of magical formulas or the pronouncement of a word or words
    of magical power (as the name of a deity), or the performance of a
    magical ritual procedure.

By ***Dr. Sardonicus <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, March 22, 2004 - 09:40 pm:

Anonymous asked:

    Hyperdimensional string and deity models differ in what fundamental way?

As far as I know, "string theory" has yet to offer any testable
predictions. "Deity models", on the other hand, have: they have been
known to include descriptions about how the gods, or God, will wreak
their wrath on you if you misbehave, or reward you for proper conduct
and belief, in this world -- thus, making testable predictions -- as
well as rewards and punishments handed out in the afterlife.

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, March 23, 2004 - 03:11 am:

What about the story of Richy Valens?

That definition of "magic" does not describe elf magic in the least.

By ***Dave H <mailto:daveglyn@howell56.freeserve.co.uk>* on Tuesday,
March 23, 2004 - 05:19 am:

Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
--Arthur C. Clarke

By ***sHades <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, March 23, 2004 - 08:00 am:

Any sufficiently advanced magic is indistinguishable from technology.
-- Ponder Stibbons

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, March 23, 2004 - 09:28 am:

Sardonicus has a dictionary that sounds like an encyclopedia. Even my
Britannica dictionary set does not get chatty that way.

However, the descriptions and definatory matter in it do show interest
in the topic of magic and are a very good basis for a discussion. They
are not unarguable the way dictionary-wavers like to have it, but are
much better than usual.

I like Clarke's quoted statement, which you will note is an epigram.

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, March 23, 2004 - 03:18 pm:

Welllll... the problem with people today if you ask me is that they're
too rational...

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, March 23, 2004 - 04:45 pm:

Am, astrology has nothing to do with magic. I've already explained it.
Clairvoyance also has nothing to do with magic

By ***Leo <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, March 23, 2004 - 05:00 pm:

the different schools of (real) magic..
necromancy
biomancy
battle
divination
healing
summoning
illusion
chaos


while most obviously the opposite of necromany, biomancy is the school
that deals with the magick of life. These two schools are the most
powerful of the eight. The boimancers also have a lot of discipline in
their field, they are not as anal retentive as the necromancer but even
in their field many things can go wrong. Biomancers have a very rigorous
training period and have to deal with as much as the necromancers.
Where the necromancers take the soul after death, the biomancers do the
opposite. They are the ones that welcome a new soul into this world.
When the "powers that be" decide that a new soul shall enter the
material realm ( earth for the non magickal ) it is up to the biomancers
to bring that life to fruition. Mind you they are not gods and do not
create the life but help guide it into the world that it shall inhabit.
They are the guides, the ones that lead the blind souls. After that the
souls that they have lead to this world are on their own, as the
biomancers job has been done. Again this is only one of the many things
that a practitioner of this school does.
Many Biomancers are also healers, another of the eight schools of
magick. Biomancers are one of the few that follow not only one, but at
the least two of the eight schools. Most biomancers are healers, but not
all healers are biomancers (confused yet?). Healers deal with a school
of life magick as well but not to the same degree that a practitioner of
Biomancy does (it makes a lot more sense once you get to healing).

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Wednesday, June 23, 2004 - 10:17 am:

I was looking at my mail loading in my mail room---there's a message
going with it, "send/receive 50% complete" and an image of a message
flying from one briefcase into another. The method of creating this
image was once explained by Walt Disney on his TV show. Minute
variations on film cel to cel. You can get the same effect in a notepad
by drawing a subtly changing piece of art and then riffling through the
pad at a fast pace. On the computer, one image vanishes and the next
image takes its place, somewhat visibly.

I was thinking about all that must be involved in using this technique
for that tiny decal-like notification in my mail room. Doubtless there's
somebody in DCWI whose big thing is designing images like this mail
image. The thing is originally drawn in a large size and presented in
motion in that size, then made small as it is incorporated into the
computer operation. Probably someone other than the artist handles its
functioning capacity. Its timing and accuracy has to be set up and it
has to be correlated with other functions. Then it's saved into a major
mailroom-operating computer where it can be variated according to
individual users in terms of their receiving. The artist draws whatever
pay is involved for contributing to the completion of this computer facet.

That's quite a lot of work going into this small blinker that holds me
until my mail downloads, or whatever it does.

I think its chief /raison-d'etre/ must be to represent the corporation's
investment into the results, its presence in the complex.

By ***Anonymous <javascript:alert('* Anonymous *');>* on Wednesday, June
23, 2004 - 01:55 pm:

Actually, John, the icon movie used for a lot of e-mail programs (among
other things) is quite easy to make with any bitmap editor such a Paint
(for Windows) and are drawn full size (the size you see). It's very easy
to use one drawing to create many each shifted by 1 pixel. Nowhere near
the complexity of a cel. The drawing may even have been done by one of
the programmers.

The more complex animations like the MS Office wizards (Paper clip,
Merlin, etc.) or the XP Search Puppy are probably generated from
software such as Photoshop which is capable of creating "slices" (the
computer equivalent of "cel"). These are likely done by a graphics artist.

Many years ago, when I was working on three original computerized
stadium scoreboards I chanced to meet a woman who had been an animator
of Betty Boop cartoons but then reduced to the position of "cel" artist
as she was the only artist employed (by us) to generate the scoreboard
cartoons. Although at the frame rate used, she probably didn't do any
more work than normal for an animator. She could produce a 10 second
cartoon in less than a day when all drawings had to be done by hand.
They weren't even drawings but drawings rendered in on/off dots.
Probably more time consuming than drawing.

By ***dfstuckey <mailto:dfstuckey@hotmail.com>* on Saturday, July 31,
2004 - 03:34 am:

Computers as psi talents . . . Hmmmm.

A sufficiently powerful enough computer with the right data can make
predictions about what four numbers are most likely to come up on a
given and monitored ( note well ) roulette wheel, so that could be
counted as a stochastic form of prescience.

But from just a simple observation? Nope.

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Saturday, July 31, 2004 - 11:13 am:

Well, there are people who call, say, television a magic device. They're
wrong, of course, but it does bring up a topic.

By ***Anonymous <javascript:alert('* Anonymous *');>* on Saturday, July
31, 2004 - 05:15 pm:

Television is indeed a magic device. I can watch a televison newscast
and get a recap of daily events without once resorting the internet!
Sim-play amazing.

By ***A.R.Yngve <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, August 01, 2004 - 03:26 pm:

But the low quality of TV programs can only be explained by black magic.
;-P

-A.R.Yngve
http://yngve.bravehost.com

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, August 01, 2004 - 07:04 pm:

LOL

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, September 15, 2005 - 11:17 am:

Well, it may or may not be a psionics machine, but I know it's not a god
the way it has been in several sf stories (Coppell, Clarke, Del Rey,
etc.). The reason I know that is it isn't infallable. Lately I'm having
to reload every day to get to my mail room.

By ***Ron Lambert <mailto:RonRayL247@Comcast.net>* on Friday, September
16, 2005 - 03:45 pm:

If we all believed in the messages we got from our psionic computers,
then the best hacker would rule the world. Our "god" would be a virus!

By ***Pogo <mailto:mwhitcroft@yahoo.com>* on Friday, September 16, 2005
- 05:26 pm:

All machines have some brain, and a way to communicate with other
machines. And a way to read the minds of humans. They know when you're
in a hurry, and refuse to do their jobs in a timely fashion. They know
when the repairman is there, and refuse to misbehave so he can diagnose
the problem. And they resume the misbehavior as soon as he leaves!

Most irritating case: Xerox brand copier, messing up every second or
third page on a large report I had to get out, necessitating constant
jam clearing. I phoned Xerox, and kept working and clearing. Repairman
showed up -- and the machine quit jamming! He told me to continue while
he watched and waited. He stood there, leaning on a counter, for a full
half-hour, and the machine did just fine. After I'd gotten the urgent
job finished, and gone on to others, he finally told me to leave it
alone and call back if it misbehaved again, and left. The fifth copy
after the door closed behind him... I went running down the hall and
found him with one foot in the elevator car! That machine knew when the
elevator arrived.

Some machines will respond to kind words, and a pat (not a smack, a
pat). Like Mother's car, which decided it didn't really want to start
for her anymore. One day she was wearing the battery down to no purpose
and I reached over from the passenger seat, offered to try. She snarled
and tried again -- then withdrew and left the pedal and the key for my
off-hand attention. I thought nice things at it, and it started right
up! It remembered that I sometimes patted it on the dashboard. :-)

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, October 27, 2005 - 01:52 pm:

I'm still not fully certain what constitutes a virus. Would this be one,
or is it mere spam?:

I clicked on an entertainment news site originating from India and was
about to comment on their news item when I found I would have to have a
registration there to do so, so I minimized the site and went on to
something else. The site popped back onto my screen while I was going
through my mail room and it was showing a different page than the one I
had been on. I got rid of it and went to my links page and was just
looking at the Analog forum when it popped on again. I put it in my
favorites file to have another look at it and then got it off the forum
screen, then when I went to my desktop it popped up again, so I got rid
of it and went to my favorites and deleted it. Then I brought up my
trash file and deleted it from that, only when I went to my desktop the
trash file still showed something in it. However, it disappeared
suddenly before I hit the trash file again and tried again.

I ran a virus scan to make sure it had been deleted and that includes a
spam guard, but it showed no virus located. It doesn't always report
viruses, I'm told, just major ones like the MyDoom it reported to me
awhile back. Would y'all say that site had a potential virus?

By ***fs <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Thursday, October 27, 2005 - 05:05 pm:

Maybe we can call it a bacteria, instead.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Sunday,
October 30, 2005 - 07:23 pm:

John Thiel writes:

/I ran a virus scan to make sure it had been deleted and that includes a
spam guard, but it showed no virus located. It doesn't always report
viruses - /

My writer's group does almost all of its activies on line. Therefore,
computer trouble is a dread phrase, especially when it 'hits' the member
we're supposed to be critiquing, or hearing a presentation from.

In response, we put together a Helpful Windows Links
<http://www.cuebon.com/ewriters/windows.html> page. Several of the gang
are serious techies, and to them goes the major credit.

By ***Abraxas365 <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, October 31, 2005 - 07:04 am:

Ummm... you know the number 2520 does have a spiritual meaning according
to the Book of Daniel - it's 7 x 360 day/years in one interpretation.
The problem is the starting point of the 2520 360-day years. If you
count from the return of Jewish Exiles from Babylonia to Jerusalem in
536 BCE you reach c. 1948 when Israel was re-established as a State.
Count from the end of the 70 years of the Exile (c. 587 - 517 BCE) you
reach 1967 and the recapture of Jerusalem from the Palestinians.

Just some curious date-links I discovered by chance with slightly more
Jewish applicability than the 1843 of SDAs or 1914 of the JWs. A curious
third date-link is 587 BCE - 1897 CE, the latter being the starting date
of modern Zionism.

Do they mean any more than all the other chronological juggling?

Abraxas365

By ***fs <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Monday,
October 31, 2005 - 11:06 pm:

This belongs in the "mind" string, but might be appropo here, also:
http://www.usatoday.com/tech/science/discoveries/2005-10-31-brain-blindsight_x.htm?csp=N007.


By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, November 01, 2005 - 12:29 am:

fs writes:

/This belongs in the "mind" string/

Its downright psionicrazy!

Sooo . . . those old "Buy a Coke!" subliminal movie screen prompts were
for real, after all.

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, December 06, 2005 - 10:43 am:

Now my Norton found a trojan horse in my mail room. I've had 'em
all--SoBig, MyDoom, and a Trojan Horse. Clever what the Antivirus did
with the horse--quarantined the whole predicament! Trojans never thought
of that.

Maybe the Analog Forum isn't a sounding board about computer matters,
but on the other hand it seems to me the name of the magazine bears
reference to computers.

By ***Abraxas365 <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Wednesday, December 07, 2005 - 06:27 am:

Hi John Thiel

No one's written a virus for an analogue computer yet, either.

Abraxas365

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Wednesday, December 07, 2005 - 07:53 pm:

A3 writes:

/Hi John Thiel

No one's written a virus for an analogue computer yet, either./

However, the introduction of such are implied in William Gibson and
Bruce Sterling's 'alternate history' SF novel /The Difference Engine/
<http://www.sfwriter.com/brdiffer.htm>.
No details are given, sorry to say. I suspect those two could've hatched
up some neat concepts.

By ***Abraxas365 <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, December 08, 2005 - 06:09 am:

Hi pc

Babbage's difference engines were digital weren't they?

Abraxas365

By ***Starless <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, December 08, 2005 - 12:50 pm:

From Stanford <http://plato.stanford.edu/entries/computing-history/>:

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    *Quote:*

    Babbage's proposed Difference Engine was a special-purpose digital
    computing machine for the automatic production of mathematical
    tables (such as logarithm tables, tide tables, and astronomical
    tables). The Difference Engine consisted entirely of mechanical
    components - brass gear wheels, rods, ratchets, pinions, etc.
    Numbers were represented in the decimal system by the positions of
    10-toothed metal wheels mounted in columns.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

It did its calculations mechanically, but it was still digital.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Thursday, December 08, 2005 - 08:30 pm:

Okay, I understand. Mechanical, but still digital.

What I'm missing here is the basic concept. As in: then what the heck is
an analog computer? Or, what would it be, if such a thing actually existed?

By ***Starless <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, December 08, 2005 - 11:51 pm:

Again from Stanford:

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    *Quote:*

    In analog computers, numerical quantities are represented by, for
    example, the angle of rotation of a shaft or a difference in
    electrical potential.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Whereas with Babbage's design (and modern digital computers) he used a
decimal system to represent numbers (each spoke on one of his wheels
represented a discrete digit between 0 and 9), an analog computer would
use something continuous to represent numerical values. Like an analog
computer might use a rheostat, while a digital computer uses a switch.

By ***Starless <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, December 08, 2005 - 11:56 pm:

One more thing:
In the history of modern electronic computing, digital wasn't a sure
thing. If vacuum tubes, then transistors, and then integrated circuits
hadn't been relatively inexpensive to produce, we might have ended up
using analog electronic computers instead and Babbage would have
remained pretty obscure.

By ***JCJR <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Friday,
December 09, 2005 - 12:37 am:

A slide rule can probably be called an analog computer.

Perhaps it is useful to differentiate between a programmable computer
versus 'single task' computer.

Analog electronic computers were pretty prominent in the mid 20th
century, but often were either single-task hardwired, or laboriously
programmable by patch cords. A 'programmable' analog computer would be
an assortment of integrator, differentiator, adder, multiplier, function
generator modules, with something like a voltage-controlled pen plotter
or voltmeter for output readout.

You would set up the 'program' with patch cords, set up input conditions
by twiddling knobs, and read the answer on a pen plotter, oscilloscope
screen, or voltmeter.

WWII bombsights and battleship fire control computers were analog--
mechanical-electrical-electronic hybrids in some cases.

Nowadays analog computer circuits are ubiquitous, but you don't call
them analog computers. You call them audio amplifiers, audio effects
modules, analog music synthesizers, HVAC control systems, phase-lock
loops in radio receivers, RADAR systems, solar-array aiming devices,
etc. But even in those areas, digital has been quickly obsoleting many
analog computing strongholds.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Friday,
December 09, 2005 - 12:41 am:

Starless writes:

/Like an analog computer might use a rheostat, while a digital computer
uses a switch/

Interesting. So it's based upon a 'fluid' (in a very broad sense) type
of interaction.
Just replaced a dimmer switch in our living room. (Five bucks at Home
Depot vs. paying an electrician a couple hundred . . . )

I was reading a history site
<http://www.history.rochester.edu/steam/hero/translators.html> about
Hero and Ctesibius, of ancient Alexandria, and the fancy pneumatic (air
tube powered) gadgets they constructed. One might imagine that, if their
work had 'lasted' and become widespread, such devices could've become
the forerunner of an analog calculator.

Hmm . . . would you consider Fuzzy Logic
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fuzzy_logic> to be digital, analog, or a
blend of the two? It's being utilized in an increasing number of
industrial machines and home appliances.

By ***Starless <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Friday, December 09, 2005 - 01:03 am:

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    *Quote:*

    Just replaced a dimmer switch in our living room. (Five bucks at
    Home Depot vs. paying an electrician a couple hundred . . . )

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Oy. Well, even if you don't get the right breaker turned off, 110 only
tickles a little anyway.

In the case of your dimmer switch, the amount you rotate the switch is
"analogous" to the brightness of the light.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    *Quote:*

    I was reading a history site about Hero and Ctesibius, of ancient
    Alexandria, and the fancy pneumatic (air tube powered) gadgets they
    constructed.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

I'm not familiar with those devices.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    *Quote:*

    Hmm . . . would you consider Fuzzy Logic to be digital, analog, or a
    blend of the two? It's being utilized in an increasing number of
    industrial machines and home appliances.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Digital devices can be (and are) used to execute fuzzy logic, but I
don't think you can call fuzzy logic "digital" in itself. Is it more
analog? I dunno. Someone else may be better equipped to answer that one.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    *Quote:*

    Nowadays analog computer circuits are ubiquitous, but you don't call
    them analog computers. You call them audio amplifiers, audio effects
    modules, analog music synthesizers, HVAC control systems, phase-lock
    loops in radio receivers, RADAR systems, solar-array aiming devices,
    etc. But even in those areas, digital has been quickly obsoleting
    many analog computing strongholds.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Exactly. One thing I noticed, though, was that digital gauges in cars
went over like a lead balloon.

By ***XXX <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Friday,
December 09, 2005 - 09:57 am:

/Hmm . . . would you consider Fuzzy Logic to be digital, analog, or a
blend of the two? /

None of the above. It's a statistical classification system. It's no
more digital or analog than symbolic algebra.


/One thing I noticed, though, was that digital gauges in cars went over
like a lead balloon./

Humans are more geared toward visual events and less able to convert
numeric values into events. It is far easier for a human to control the
speed of the car with an analog speedometer because humans are wired to
see the rate of objects and definitely not wired to convert a numeric
stream into rate information. The rate of movement of the speedometer
needle gives readily interpreted clues about how much accelerator
pressure is required.

Digital readouts are handy for things that are primarly numeric and
informative (i.e., uncontrolled) like time or oil pressure. Binary
digital readouts (e.g., idiot lights) are also used to give a good/bad
indication.

By ***Starless <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Friday, December 09, 2005 - 11:49 am:

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    *Quote:*

    Humans are more geared toward visual events and less able to convert
    numeric values into events. It is far easier for a human to control
    the speed of the car with an analog speedometer because humans are
    wired to see the rate of objects and definitely not wired to convert
    a numeric stream into rate information. The rate of movement of the
    speedometer needle gives readily interpreted clues about how much
    accelerator pressure is required.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

I've always seen it as more of a basic monkey need to feel in control.

By ***JCJR <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Friday,
December 09, 2005 - 11:52 am:

pc, Perhaps the dividing line between analog and digital is quantization
of the values. A mechanical clockwork computer COULD be analog rather
than digital, even if it has gear teeth rather than smooth shafts and
pulleys.

For instance, the clockwork gears in a conventional auto odometer could
be considered analog, even if the readout contains gear-driven number
wheels. The least-significant mileage wheel doesn't 'suddenly change'
every tenth of a mile. You can eyeball the position of the wheel, and if
it is halfway between 5 and 6, you can guestimate that it is reading a
value of 0.55.

Along those lines, PERHAPS the babbage machine would have been a
digital/analog hybrid, if the machine worked in such a way that one
could read 'partial values' on the number wheels. But if the number
wheels had no intermediate positions-- If the number wheels
ratchet-click between digits, and never display intermediate values, it
would be 'purely digital'. For instance, there are event counter modules
which are very similar to an auto odometer, but are incremented by
voltage-triggering a solenoid. The mechanical counter increments one
digit per input pulse, and there are never 'partial values' between digits.

Your typical cheap knob light dimmer is 'mostly analog'. The analog
rheostat sets a 'theoretically infinite resolution' trigger point. The
AC power is a smooth analog sine wave and could be measured with
'infinite resolution' at any time point (at least in theory).

When the smooth analog power sine wave reaches the trigger point set by
the rheostat, the dimmer fires a TRIAC and switches ON the light bulb
for that half-cycle. So if the trigger point is low, the light bulb gets
full power, switching ON the entire duration of each sine halfwave. With
higher trigger points, the dimmer waits longer to switch ON the light,
so the bulb only receives power from part of each halfwave, and gets
'dimmer'.

The triac switching is a digital behavior. Triacs toggle very fast, and
are either fully on or fully off, except for a brief time window when
the device is changing state.

Guess one could say that the dimmer works by digitizing analog values.

By ***Starless <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Friday, December 09, 2005 - 12:29 pm:

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    *Quote:*

    Along those lines, PERHAPS the babbage machine would have been a
    digital/analog hybrid, if the machine worked in such a way that one
    could read 'partial values' on the number wheels.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

My understanding is that the Difference Engine and Analytical Engine
were both purely digital designs. The wheels incremented one tooth at a
time.

By ***XXX <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Friday,
December 09, 2005 - 02:39 pm:

/Your typical cheap knob light dimmer is 'mostly analog'. The analog
rheostat sets a 'theoretically infinite resolution' trigger point. The
AC power is a smooth analog sine wave and could be measured with
'infinite resolution' at any time point (at least in theory)./

So is a furnace or air conditioner control. The actual device rarely has
multiple or continuously variable ON states. Instead, the control uses
pulse width modulation in which the desired output is accomplished by
varying the duty cycle. I consider such a system as analog input with
analog output. The only digital part is the operated device which is
either ON or OFF.

Of course, I was referring to the standard thermostat where the desired
temperature input is by knob or lever. There are themostats with digital
inputs.

By ***XXX <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Friday,
December 09, 2005 - 02:40 pm:

/I've always seen it as more of a basic monkey need to feel in control./

I have no feeling when I'm in control. Compassion has no place during
that time.

By ***Starless <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Friday, December 09, 2005 - 04:27 pm:

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
    *Quote:*

    I have no feeling when I'm in control. Compassion has no place
    during that time.

    ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Touche. But then, I didn't say the monkey was actually in control, just
that he needed to /feel/ in control.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Saturday, December 17, 2005
- 08:03 pm:

I wonder what's going on in a computer complex sometimes. Just today I
added a message to a topic at this forum and as usual it clicked to the
top, but not as usual the count didn't change when it went to the top.
Always before, the count has changed when a topic has just gone to the
top. This time was the only exception there's been to that. So, wha
hoppen this one time? I switched over to the main page and then back,
and then the new number did appear, but always before it's been there at
once. For a brief time there was a miscount there, I will inform the
computer ghods. As an unnecessary control factor to back up the
observation, I posted a comment to a topic at the Asimov's forum (where
I still had something to say) and watched the topic appear at the top,
and the count changed right on time along with its elevation.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Saturday, December 17, 2005
- 08:06 pm:

And, yhos, this time it changed at once too, a same-day posting at the
same forum.

By ***BTDT <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Sunday,
December 18, 2005 - 09:24 am:

The page was probably cached in your computer. Your browser does this to
cut down on traffic. When you clicked away and come back the page may
have been flushed from the cache causing a complete refresh.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Monday, December 26, 2005 -
11:31 am:

Never mind any criticisms I have of the computer, though; the computer
is a wonderful gadget and an amazing machine! Its outreach is enormous!
One can't contact the entire Universe on it, no, but one can communicate
with people anywhere on this planet! THAT is a wonder in itself. And I
compliment the various makers of the Wonder Computer!

BTW my file of "computer errors" contains a "We can't find" notification
from MSN Search at the top of which is my search request
^www.asimovsdotcom (second dot typed out as I am not trying to put a
link here) and above that it states "We can't find 'www.asimovsdotcom",
the very thing they'd verified I'd asked for. Beneath it it says "Did
you intend to go to one of these similar Web addreses?" The only similar
web address they list is, again, www.asimovsdotcom. Then it says "You
can also visit one of these related Web sites." They are Asimov's
Science Fiction, a hyperlink, Asimovdotcom, and Asimov,Isaac at Amazon.
I went back and clicked the one that was exactly like the request I had
made and got to the site.

For a long time I haven't seen this message, but just today I searched
out www.Asimov'sdotcom and got the same message. This time there was in
fact a discrepancy, as I had used a capital letter and an apostrophe. It
just reminded me that you didn't have to have a discrepancy to get this
message. I note they use an apostrophe in their hyperlink, but it's
rather odd that they should be presenting a searcher with a hyperlink.

The reason I haven't gotten this same message any time in between is I
took out a link to the page, but today my links page couldn't be
reached. You've seen the notification, "this page is not..."

The screen form I mention I had printed out and my file copy is in a
genuine manila folder, as are the rest of my files.

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, January 23, 2006 - 09:43 am:

This topic never got to what I really had in mind--if a computer were
put to use on any psychic purpose, it would be being used, in a broad
general sense, as a psionics machine. There are a number of psychic
experimentationists I have discovered on the net, they using methods
resembling those of Joseph B. Rhine. Also people try to use the net for
magic, Wiccan being the most outstanding example, and some hoodoo,
/i.e./ identity theft, iconography, bots.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
January 31, 2006 - 04:03 am:

A long and wondering thread, but as yet several things have not been
addressed. I'll skip the usual boiler plate about universal conceptual
definition... most of us already understand that a clear discussion
depends on establishing the meaning of terms and concepts.

Psionics can loosely be considered the study of psychic phenomena, those
things that originate in or are of the psyche. By classic definition,
the psyche is inclusive of the soul and mind, neither of which can be
scientifically proven to exist and remain as observed phenomena in
association with the function and activity of the brain and extended
nervous system.

The mind and soul find their "home" in the spiritual realm, among other
invisible, intangible truths like awareness, understanding, intuition,
emotion and apprehension.

The mind is the quintessential psionics machine. It is a complex
structure of perception and interpretation which focuses awareness into
understanding. The brain, on the other hand, is the fundamental
computer. Some consider the mind to be nothing more than that computer's
operating system, and honestly there is a parallel. However, the fact is
that the mind--or the soul, if we want to embrace the entire concept of
the psyche--also happens to be the operator of that computer.

From my stand point, an artificial psionics machine would require first,
the capacity for awareness, and second, the capacity for self awareness.
I feel that this would invite the third thing necessary for a machine to
possess that quality we experience as beings: will.

Awareness and will are the fundamental psychic abilities. The function
of awareness and will are what enable a conscious, rational mind to
assume control of and utilize the neurological structures through which
thought is translated into action. It is a phenomenon that can be
observed and studied, but which continues to defy scientific understanding.

I am indifferent to arguements about magic and miracles. Our basic
existence is about as magical as you could ever want. It is the
embodiment of the magical notion "mind over matter". Existence is a
subjective condition, and that suggests that a purely objective
perspective cannot encompass the truth about ourselves or existence.
That possability is excluded by objectivity. That is the paradox of it all.

I will point out, however, that whatever the mind is, it does in fact
exist in this univers, it does in fact interact with this universe, it
is in fact the very thing in which our entire association with the
universe is contained in. We don't live in the world. We live in the
image of the world that is created in our minds, by virtue of the
conscious and unconscious interpretation of our perceptions. The only
thing that makes the world real to us at all, the only thing that
distinguishes it from dreams, is the constancy and continuity of the
construct itself and our interaction with each other within it.

(continued next post)

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
January 31, 2006 - 04:04 am:

We are the only things in existance capible of perceiving a thought, a
feeling, a dream. We are psionics machines. We will not build machines
capible of transmitting thoughts, because we eschewed that ability
ourselves, and would have to embrace it again in order to replicate it.
Science will have to embrace the mind, and even what the mind itself has
chosen conceptually to represent itself--the soul--before "psionics" can
ever be more than a dream. We need to come to grips with the psychic
abilities we already, needfully, possess, before we can entertain the
possabilities we apprehend within ourselves.

Does that give you pause? Did I just suggest that there might be some
truth to such things as telepathy and telekinesis? There is as much
proof as science requires. The universe is built on a foundation of
invisible, virtually intangible forces. Gravity, magnatism, electricity,
and the nuclear forces are virtually incomprehensible to us, but science
recognizes them. Science has found them at the root of everything. The
mind exists in respect and relation to those same forces. Somewhere,
somehow, on a quantum level, the mind can exert direct influence on
those forces, or products of those forces, to impel our bodies to
action. You have to accept that as a fact, or the question of existence
ultimately becomes moot. The mind is our interface with the universe,
with the construct upon which reality is founded. There is no question
of belief here, because to question this is to simply examine what you
already know. What we think of as knowledge is actually a creation. It
is a process of translating what each of us understands individually
into representations that can be shared universally. A process of
defining impressions, impulses, sensations, emotions... thoughts... and
communicating them.

If we all were truly psychic beings, would it be so strange that the
protocol for telepathy would be "sharing a dream"?

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, January 31, 2006 - 10:36 am:

A thought-provoking consideration.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, January 31, 2006 - 08:34 pm:

Hello and welcome, D B R.

Fascinating speculations and overview. I wondered if you'd written any
philosophy tomes, but if so, Google doesn't know about it. And if not,
you should!
(You'd fit right in with the Philosophy SIG that I participate in.)

/ We will not build machines capable of transmitting thoughts, because
we eschewed that ability ourselves, and would have to embrace it again
in order to replicate it./

One question immediately arises:

What do you mean by "again?" As a monotheist, I see 'unfallen' humanity
as having all sorts of abilities now lacking, however telepathy is not
usually on that 'list.'
(A believer in reincarnation, and/or 'oversouls' would, I'm sure, think
differently.)

There *are* many people and organizations that hope to construct such a
technological device, for telepathic communication; with the living and,
in some cases, with the dear departed.
(That whole field is, as one might expect, brimming with crackpots and
con artists, but so far as I can tell, there are also many sober and
sincere folks involved.)

BTW, a lady I know is having a dinner meeting with Rupert Sheldrake
soon. With (in part) this forum in mind, I passed along a couple of
questions she'll hopefully have the opportunity to ask him.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 06, 2006 - 04:09 pm:

I was hoping to provoke a few thoughts...

There will be a point in my life when I will cull my various journals
and letters and collect my thoughts and observations for publication,
but as of yet I am unpublished. Perhaps that time is coming sooner than
I anticipated, if this is the sort of reaction my thoughts provoke.

Your question is not unexpected, but let me assure you that I sound
occult more out of a sense of irrepressable drama and style than because
I pretend to any special knowledge. When I say we would have to embrace
that ability again, I am not speaking in the sense of human generations
or ages, but rather of normal human development and personal experience.

I mean, of course, that this "ability" evolved hand in hand with
sentience. And, in consideration of your faith (and at some time I can
discuss what I call the embracing faith, if you are interested)I am not
speaking solely of Classical Human Evolution as opposed to Creation, but
of the process through which a brain acquires a mind, as a mind acheives
individuality, through individuality self-possession and thus a soul.
Those faiths that practice prayer already possess a strong, unstated
belief in telepathy. The idea that our thoughts and emotions are
broadcast into the universe is not uncommon, nor is the belief that our
minds are influenced by subtle impulses from divine and abominable
influences. We have those beliefs in virtually all cultures because they
aptly describe things we all experience. There are many instances where
"great minds think alike" and that fits the definition of telepathy to
some degree, but more significant are those moments of wordless
communication, shared awareness.

The basics of telepathy can be grasped in your basic high school physics
resonance theory. As I said before, we are the only things capible of
perceiving thoughts, and this occurs in our own minds... and if you
believe that every thought you perceive is your own, you are practicing
a common form of self deception. The level of background noise in the
average mind is simply too much mental activity for any single brain to
account for. They are echoes. Perhaps I am speaking with more authority
than I ought, having yet to establish myself, but I speak from the
advantage of having studied this phenomenon for easily twenty years or
more.

(cont)

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 06, 2006 - 04:18 pm:

But returning to your question, "again"... well, there are two sides to
that. One is the process in every individual's life when we errect walls
of perception and interpretation to protect our individuality and
preserve our own identities. Occasionally something slips through a
crack in those walls and we experience, as adults, "uncharistic"
thoughts or moments of rapport. The other is the process of
civilization, the evolution of cultures and philosophies. As human
beings have become more "sophisticated" and turned away from spiritual
life to obsess over material existence, the tendancy to embrace and
explore those aspects of the psyche that operate invisibly and
intangibly diminished. We convinced ourselves, as a people, that direct
communication, mind to mind, was impossible because there was no medium,
no mechanism, involved. Well, today we know that there are invisible
mediums and mechanisms capible of such transmission, but the notion that
telepathy is impossible had already make it's impression on the
collective psyche. So, in that sense, we must reclaim that ability
before we can progress in our understanding of the mind, to a point
where we jump from radio transmission to mind/machine transmission.

Forgive me if that reads a bit awkwardly. As you might imagine, one of
the obstacles to my pursuit of publication is a desire to avoid being
perceived as a crank, kook or con artist. There is something in all of
us that aspires for revelation, that hungers for the manifestation of a
great spiritual truth. The Holographic Model of nature/reality is still
hovering on the brink of plausability, last I checked, primarily because
many of the theory's adherents point out such spiritual ramifications as
life after death. I think that the impetus to develop a machine
interface with the mind is in part an institutional desire to use the
machine to bring the mind itself into a respectable position for
science... a point where it can be weighed and measured.

I'd be interested in hearing how that dinner goes. Throw me a link to
that Philosophy SIG, if you can, and I'll give it a look too.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, February 06, 2006 - 04:18 pm:

/There will be a point in my life when I will cull my various journals
and letters and collect my thoughts and observations for publication,
but as of yet I am unpublished/

Maybe you should wait until after you die then you wouldn't miss any
potential highlights.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, February 06, 2006 - 04:35 pm:

/As you might imagine, one of the obstacles to my pursuit of publication
is a desire to avoid being perceived as a crank, kook or con artist/

after: /The basics of telepathy can be grasped in your basic high school
physics resonance theory ... and if you believe that every thought you
perceive is your own, you are practicing a common form of self deception./

Too late, I'm afraid. You would give a better impression if you confined
yourself to showing how existing phenomenon worked instead of explaining
the imaginary. The trailing part ("... and if you believe ...") talks
about telepathy as if it actually was proven. The net result is that the
whole discussion is a form of "begging the question" fallacy. If you
want to avoid being "perceived as a crank, kook or con artist" then you
should avoid speaking as one.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 06, 2006 - 05:41 pm:

A couple of very aggressive responses. Which is fine, I all but invited
it and that is the way some people will always respond to philosphic
speculation. In turn, that is an invitation to address the topic of
predisposition. Why is it that some people are aggressively skeptical,
unable and unwilling to even consider an idea except in the very strict
and limited scope of scientific method? This person who does not even
identify himself in his (or her) post, is one of those people for whom
the mind itself can not exist because it cannot be described and
explained scientifically but who cannot deny that the mind exists
because the subjective and circumstantial evidence of the mind cannot be
ignored.

I set out to refine and clarify a set of concepts pertaining to psionics
and psychic ability in reference to the feasability of reproducing or
creating the effects or functions represented by such things as
telepathy, telekinesis, precognition, et al, in a machine. I speculated
that some qualities are properly defined as psychic in nature, such as
awareness and will, and posited that those qualities would have to be
reproduced mechanically as a prerequisite for machine psionics, which in
fact is the topic of this thread.

In response to a private inquiry into a fine point of speculation, I
even pointed out that this is a subject that a person can be branded as
a charlatan for discussing, and almost without hesitation, someone
attacked my credibility. It is almost amusing, actually.

I would love to go into speculation on how telepathy worked, my unnamed
antagonist, but as there is no body of work on how thought works, what
would be the basis of our discussion?

Do not presume that because a person is willing to speculate and capible
of doing so without predisposition or artificial restraint, that he or
she is irrational or incredible. Original thought depends on the ability
to challenge assumptions, to posit how a thing might work even when
there is yet to be a test formulated to challenge that speculation.
Never assault open mindedness with small mindedness.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, February 06, 2006 - 06:00 pm:

/In turn, that is an invitation to address the topic of predisposition.
Why is it that some people are aggressively skeptical, unable and
unwilling to even consider an idea except in the very strict and limited
scope of scientific method/

Because discussing something as if it exists is as pointless as
discussing the number of angels that can fit onto the head of a pin.

The neat thing about the "strict and limited scope of the scientific
method" is that it eventually cuts through the bullshit.


/Do not presume that because a person is willing to speculate and
capible of doing so without predisposition or artificial restraint, that
he or she is irrational or incredible./

Sorry, it's one thing to speculate but it's quite another to presuppose
things. When you start talking about things as if they exist without any
proof of existence then you ARE irrational.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 06, 2006 - 06:55 pm:

/Because discussing something as if it exists is as pointless as
discussing the number of angels that can fit onto the head of a pin./

I, sir, am a writer and an artist. You do the world and yourself no
favors by asserting that discussing something as if it exists is
pointless when in fact a tremendous amount of human endeavor is devoted
to the creation, reading, viewing, interpretation, criticism and general
discussion of pure fiction and fancy. As this is a forum for the readers
of science fiction as well as fact, you are participating in the very
thing you decry. I think you will find a great many people willing to
argue with you on that point.

/The neat thing about the "strict and limited scope of the scientific
method" is that it eventually cuts through the bullshit./

Actually, a great deal of bullshit makes its way through the filter of
scientific method. Space is limited in these posts, so we'll have to
take this argument off to its own thread if you insist on pursuing it
with specifics. I'll say just this, I am not attacking scientific
method, I am simply pointing out that it is too narrow to use as a model
for all thinking. Science is, quite literally, a body of knowledge. It
is merely the record of what we, as a species, currently know. That is a
pittance compared to what we don't know. If we are to know more, we have
to think about what we don't know. We have to develop ways of thinking
about things we don't know, and we have to be as responsible about how
we approach and cultivate those things as we are about devising and
testing hypotheses.

/Sorry, it's one thing to speculate but it's quite another to presuppose
things. When you start talking about things as if they exist without any
proof of existence then you ARE irrational./

It seems to me that you have chosen to take umbrage because I express
myself with confidence. Speaking about psionics as if it exists was the
point. In case your are not familiar with it, there is a thing called
suspension of disbelief, which is employed in reading and writing
fiction and in pursuing speculation. In case you missed it, this thread
asks a speculative question about a speculative topic. If you feel that
I was in error treating the question seriously and examining it
seriously and conscienciously, then I suggest that it is you, my friend,
who is being irrational.

But, try not to take that personally.

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Monday, February 06, 2006 - 07:06 pm:

I don't think What? likes a literate, well-presented arguement.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 06, 2006 - 09:12 pm:

Thank you, John. As you happen to be the person who initiated this
thread, I imagine you have something of an interest in seeing the that
the topic is explored with some degree of interest and integrity. For
myself, I have always considered all matters concerned with the
existence and nature of the soul, and that can be derived from the
existence and nature of the soul, to be a matter of great import. A true
scientist will always admit that science is a deliberately and
explicitly limited discipline. Science concerns itself with finding
answers to questions about what things are and how they work, but does
not concern itself with the issue of why. That, a scientist will tell
you, is a question reserved for the disciplines of philosophy and
religion. In addition, the scope of science is typically limited to
matters that have a useful or practical application. In matters where
the subject matter lies outside of the realm where it can be subjected
to controlled experiment, science also withdraws. Science is ultimately
limited to presenting facts and educated speculation in the form of
theories. We all know there is much more to life and the world as we
know it than that. In addition, facts are not equivalent to truths. Some
facts are true and some facts are not, and most are simply--to a greater
or lesser degree--accurate.

I have a great respect for science, but I have a greater concern about
the truth. I suppose that makes me a philosopher, and my philosophy is
grounded in trying to understand the psyche. I do not know how useful
the truth of the soul might be, but I do believe it is of paramount
importance, and that is the only guarantor of my integrity I can offer.
If I cannot apprehend the truth of the soul or the mind, what purpose
can it serve to delude myself or anyone else with fictions?

I might be wrong in my observations or interpretations, but I will
tolerate no challenges to the integrity with which I present them.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 12:18 am:

Boy, you go to work for a day, and you never know what the friendly
forumites will be up to!

D B R writes:

/Those faiths that practice prayer already possess a strong, unstated
belief in telepathy./

Good point! Never seen this expressed in quite such a fashion. One
supposes God can 'hear' you no matter what, but many faiths also seek
intercession by saints and guardian angels, etc. Assuming this practice
has a basis in reality -- and billions of intelligent and educated
people think it does -- would the 'recipients' not need some form of
telepathy?

By the way, I was referring to the Mensa Philosophy SIG. Its print
newsletter is called /Synapse/. (A name shared by several other
publications.)

Would love to drop a link, however, the SIG's web site has floundered
unfinished for more than a year now.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 07, 2006 - 04:20 am:

PC: It hardly seems possible that one could be the first to point out
the obvious in a practice that is as old as humanity, but I suppose that
goes to show how easy it is to overlook something simply because we are
familiar and comfortable with the context in which we normally view it.

Your clarification about the Philosophy SIG only underscores the
magnitude of the compliment you honored me with. Thank you. If the site
ever does come together, please let me know. I am fairly certain that my
gmail account is good for as long as Google remains in business.

I'll also continue to keep an eye on this thread to see what direction
it goes off in.

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 10:42 am:

It seems to me science is excluded from anything outside of its realm by
its own criteria. And it accounts for people playing mystic games on a
computer.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 11:29 am:

/It seems to me that you have chosen to take umbrage /

You're the one taking umbrage. I really don't give a damn. If you wish
to engage in fallcious reasoning that's your problem.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 07, 2006 - 04:32 pm:

Yes, John. That is precisely what I am saying. Science limits itself as
a discipline to one single method of operation and anything which cannot
be subjected to that method is excluded from science. Science is a very
good and reliable tool for testing the mechanics of reality. But, when
all you've got is a hammer, then all your problems begin to look like
nails. Humanity needs other tools, and they need to use those tools in a
cooperative and coordinated way.

Hey, What?... your opening remarks to me were the equivalent of "shut up
and die". You follow that with lazy accusations of deceitfulness and
fallacious reasoning, all the while hiding under the cover of anonymity.
You pretend to be in a morally superior position while practicing the
lowest form of hostile, maliciously reasoned arguement. If you don't
like the way I present myself, you certainly did not give me any reason
to respect your sensabilities. Your false assumptions about the
integrity and quality of my character are insulting and have no bearing
on the topic in discussion. That I express myself in the habit of a
fiction writer ought to be no insurmountable obstacle in the mature and
enlightened exchange of ideas between sane, sensible and intelligent
individuals. You have made no worthy contribution to this thread, when,
with the same motivation you could have stimulated discussion with
polite challenges, as so: "You're writing as if this is established
fact. Upon what thinking or observation do you base these assertions?"

No. The problem with you, my friend, is that you just don't give a damn.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 04:55 pm:

/all the while hiding under the cover of anonymity/

Oh, you're one of those. Prove that you aren't hiding under anonymity
yourself.

In any case, I've told you why I think your reasoning is fallacious. Why
are you being so defensive? Is anyone who thinks you have a pointless
argument automatically attacking you personally? Does it justify
personal attacks on others?

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 07, 2006 - 05:06 pm:

The irony of this whole discussion is that the holy grail of science is,
in effect, the equvalent of a psionics machine. The long sought and as
yet unattained Unified Field Theory is an attempt to come up with a
method of predicting the nature, function and behavior of the Universe.
Inevitably, a computer would be employed, utilizing the mathematical
formulas and algorythms of such a theory, to predict the outcome of
events. To a lesser degree, the general application of science meets the
general criteria of a psionics machine geared toward providing us with a
degree of precognition. Obviously, we'll continue to call it something
more rational sounding, like "statistical analysis" or "modelling".

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 05:25 pm:

/The irony of this whole discussion is that the holy grail of science
is, in effect, the equvalent of a psionics machine. The long sought and
as yet unattained Unified Field Theory is an attempt to come up with a
method of predicting the nature, function and behavior of the Universe/

That's really the domain of science as a whole. UFT is attempting to
model all fields with a single model. It is unlikely that it would be
the Be-All-and-End-All of all models. In any case, applying a model
isn't what is normally meant by "precognition"^1 . The models always
require starting from a known state and Heisenberg's Principle prevents
us from knowing even that. Calling a scientific model a a "psionics
machine" is pure gobbledygook.


^1 [M-W] /precognition/: clairvoyance^2 , relating to an event or state
not yet experienced

^2 [M-W]/clairvoyance/: the power or faculty of discerning objects not
present to the senses

Of course, you could apply the definition of /clairvoyance/ to looking
through a telescope as being clairvoyant but I think that's stretching
the real meaning.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 07, 2006 - 05:40 pm:

/Oh, you're one of those./

Categorization, sarcastic. A device used to diminish one's opposition.
Contributes nothing to the thread.

/Prove that you aren't hiding under anonymity yourself./

This is a particularly lazy ripost, requiring the opposition to disprove
a negative. Incidentally, another attempt to belittle by challenging,
again, the integrity of the opposition. Contributes nothing to the thread.

/In any case, I've told you why I think your reasoning is fallacious./

Too late, I'm afraid. You would give a better impression if you confined
yourself to showing how existing phenomenon worked instead of explaining
the imaginary. The trailing part ("... and if you believe ...") talks
about telepathy as if it actually was proven. The net result is that the
whole discussion is a form of "begging the question" fallacy. If you
want to avoid being "perceived as a crank, kook or con artist" then you
should avoid speaking as one.

I can see where you told me that my reasoning is fellacious, but as for
why... that's pretty thin, and I've already responded adequately in
defence of my writing voice. If you have not grasped that by now, then I
have serious doubts about your ability to comprehend what you read.
Contributes nothing to the thread.

/Why are you being so defensive? Is anyone who thinks you have a
pointless argument automatically attacking you personally?/

When one is attacked, one defends out of necessity. It is the only
sensible response to bullying. Or, did you not open your "debate" with
the following?: "Maybe you should wait until after you die then you
wouldn't miss any potential highlights." Contributes nothing to the thread.

/Does it justify personal attacks on others?/

You set the tone, stupid. How could you even ask such a dumb question.
Contributes nothing to the thread. Responding to you no longer qualifies
as participating in the discussion defined as the topic of this thread.
Please stop wasting everyone's time.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 05:58 pm:

/Prove that you aren't hiding under anonymity yourself. This is a
particularly lazy ripost, requiring the opposition to disprove a
negative. Incidentally, another attempt to belittle by challenging,
again, the integrity of the opposition/

IOW: What's good for the goose doesn't apply to the gander?


/You set the tone, stupid/

Ad hominem truly is the last resort of a weak argument isn't it?


/"Maybe you should wait until after you die then you wouldn't miss any
potential highlights."/

So we don't have the same sense of humor (actually, I think you have
none at all).

Of course, you took it out of context which changes the meaning
immensely. I suppose you are aware that no one is going to go back to
find out what really was said. Another of your attacking replies Mr. Ad
Hominem?

Bad reasoning and and hominem defense. We're done here.
Bleckkk!

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 07, 2006 - 06:01 pm:

What?: /That's really the domain of science as a whole./

Me: /To a lesser degree, the general application of science meets the
general criteria of a psionics machine geared toward providing us with a
degree of precognition./

It almost sounds like we are in agreement here. The part where my
arguement ties in with the topic, if computers could be employed as
psionic machines, is where computers are used to model an event in an
attempt to predict the outcome of an event. Here, one could compare the
function to the psychic ability of precognition, since the actual event
the model attempts to predict would necessarily occur in the future, and
thus is an event not experienced. In this application, we can posit that
the situation comes close to meeting the criteria of the question. You
could call this machine precognition, but, as I pointed out, in
application it would be called something else.

The use of science to determine as best as possible the most successful
method of acheiving a goal, from building a bridge to plotting a
trajectory to Mars, is a practical exercise in artificial precognition.
Actual precognition is primarily imagination, and it is as accurate as
the individual's internal capacity to model future events based on
previous experience, observation and deduction. It's not a mystical
ability, unless you neglect to examine the process, and it need not be
regarded as a mystical ability. It's just predictive modeling combined
with visualization.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 06:05 pm:

Quoting yourself: /Responding to you no longer qualifies as
participating in the discussion defined as the topic of this thread.
Please stop wasting everyone's time. /

_NOW_ you want to talk! I'm sorry, Dave, I can't do that.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 07, 2006 - 06:31 pm:

/You set the tone, stupid. Ad hominem truly is the last resort of a weak
argument isn't it?/

Like a dog with a bone... Pardon me if I recognize that sometimes it is
best to call a thing what it is. Please, take it as a personal attack,
take it as a low blow. I was insulting you, you dolt! By this point, you
truly deserve to be insulted. This was never an arguement. It's been a
fight, and you picked it. As for sense of humor, boy, I am laughing my
ass off at you every time you post. You are utterly ridiculous. You have
a degree of intelligence, but you are lacking in perception,
adaptability, creativity and decorum. You do not acknowledge or respond
to my specific responses to your attacks, but instead jump on some other
phrase that /you/ perceive as weak, and try to chew it apart as if it
were the foundation of my whole arguement. When I deflect that, you go
back to crying out the same complaints you started with. Are you mental?

/Of course, you took it out of context which changes the meaning
immensely./

Hey, What?... your opening remarks to me were the equivalent of "shut up
and die".

/I suppose you are aware that no one is going to go back to find out
what really was said. Another of your attacking replies Mr. Ad Hominem?/

Maybe it would help if /you/ went back to find out what was really said.
I am tired of repeating myself.

/Bad reasoning and and hominem defense. We're done here./

Thank you! Maybe now we can see some posts that are *ON TOPIC!*

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 07, 2006 - 06:34 pm:

NOW you want to talk! I'm sorry, Dave, I can't do that.

THAT is actually funny. Of course, now we're cross posting.

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 06:59 pm:

Well, a little order here, /please/, gentlemen! I have been optioning
for a well-thought-out, serious and constructive discussion here, as
originator of this topic. Hopefully the matter will be discussed more
calmly. I don't know why all this consternation has been raised; it
seems to me the topic is not that emotive. What I am asking is, does
anyone consider a computer to be a psionics machine, and if so, what do
they base this on? I do not think that the thought that it might be
considered one occurred originally with me.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 08:18 pm:

I heartily agree with John Thiel, the creator of this thread. If you
guys want to call each other by a long and creative series of
polysyllabic bad names, then by all means to do. Preferably by some
private means, such as email.

Meanwhile, I eagerly await your unique, topical insights.

/I'm sorry, Dave, [I'm afraid] I can't do that./

ROFL! At least we haven't lost our senses of humor. My old Mac Classic
used to say that, and in Douglas Rain's proper voice, every time you
wanted to shut it off.

By ***The End <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 10:18 pm:

What?, and his ilk, are simply jealous because they have never had a
truly original thought.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Saturday,
February 11, 2006 - 04:30 am:

I haven't had much time to spend on line the past few days, but I am
still interested in seeing where this line of speculation can go. I did
read the topic as having an inclination toward psionic phenomena as
being extant, and addressed my comments in that sense. It occurs to me
now to ask if, by speaking of computers as psionics machines, this
referrs to a machine that provides a functional capacity or capability
we tend to think of as being psionic (fictional or otherwise)? In other
words, that psionic abilities such as telepathy and telekenisis could be
acheived through the further development of digital technology?

Or, are we taking the liberty of asserting that psionics, while
unproven, might be real and that the computer technology we currently
use can in some fashion be incorporated into the ways such abilities
might be expressed?

A general trend in the development of a technology is that it tends to
follow or closely coincide with advances in the study of similar natural
phenomena. To wit, in the era when scientists experimented with the
fundamentals of mechanics, we experienced the birth of an industrial
ere, and when science and medicine began to explore the functions of the
brain, we entered the era of information technology. As a general
premise, it would follow that a psionic machine would arise only in an
era when psychic phenomena became subject to reliable observation and
study, which would first necessitate that individuals demonstrably
possessing such abilities emerge.

I would like to point out, humbly, that even though a thing has not been
proven to exist one can not reasonably conclude that it does not or can
not exist. In truth, very few events are subjected, or can be subjected,
to the kind of testing necessary to establish a hypothesis. General
observation suffices for most of human experience. That said, it is
reasonable enough to suppose that a thing might exist, and further, that
many things cannot be tested because to some degree they are
misconceived of. Psionic abilities do not seem very probable, but at
this time it is not appropriate to claim that they are impossible.

I for one would find it much easier to address the topic of this thread
if we clarified what it is we mean here when we speak of psionics and in
what manner or context a psionics machine arises.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Saturday, February 11, 2006
- 09:50 am:

Psionics is a term related to parapsychology, that second term being one
I first saw on the back of a Groff Conklin paperback anthology where it
was a description of what could be found among the contents of the book.
Where "esp" is extrasensory perception, "psi" is parapsychology. The
suffix "onics" means the applied science thereof, thereby "the applied
science of parapsychology." A lot of people don't regard psychology as a
science, but here it is being used as one; the approach to psychology,
whether it itself is a science, is a scientific one. (Which leads one to
wonder, "why would science be approaching or want to approach
psychology, and what would be the results of this approach?".) "Para" is
Greek; I don't know exactly what its meaning is or what its meanings
are, but it seems to mean "in proximity to". A psionics machine would be
one in use in psionics.

The first concept of a psionics machine was of a machine that would pick
up brain waves. Brain waves aren't broadcast, however, but the thought
was, in esp they _would_ be broadcast. It seems to me that where I read
about these machines was in Martin Gardner's FADS AND FALLACIES IN THE
NAME OF SCIENCE, and the psionics machines were seen as crackpot
devices. However, Campbell took them seriously enough to write a few
things about them, though as I recall he considered himself to be
investigating a pseudoscientific realm when considering psionics. At any
rate, this notion was developed into machines that would broadcast
telepathically, something the mind would hear. Then there were machines
that would pick up the presence of the supernatural, as, for example,
ghosts, and machines that would reach into other dimensions and spirit
realms. This last might be what would be meant by a computer being a
psionics machine--does it reach into spirit realms? Of course, being a
machine, it does not, although it does transcend materiality, if that is
considered transcendence.

Energy can broadcast, but can spirit broadcast? The computer is doing
something fantastic, but the scientist can comprehend how it functions
in doing this; the spirit remains not very much known to science.
Perhaps it is better than matter and energy, but it cannot do what
matter and energy can do. That seems to me to be the way an argument on
the subject would stand at this point, and similarly, a discussion.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Saturday, February 11, 2006 - 06:16 pm:

Way up top, and way back in June of 2003, John Thiel posted this:

/But I suggest the Cosmic All might be discoverable and even invokable
via computer/.

One of the very first SF books I ever read, at a tender young age, is
Asimov's collection /Nine Tomorrows/. Happily, a couple of weeks ago, I
located a copy: the same edition, cover art, and everything.
Several of its stories made an impression I never forgot. One, which J T
may well be referencing here, is "The Last Question," the story
featuring a Cosmic AC computer.


By the way, who or what is JWC?

By ***Adam <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Saturday, February 11, 2006 - 06:17 pm:

Hi All

Perhaps "it" is confined to our skulls, localised to our brain
processes. Johnjoe McFadden is a biophysicist who thinks the 'mind'
might be the coherent EM field generated by the brain's processes. Most
of the time it's confined by the EM shielding of the various membranes
and skull bones, but perhaps occasionally it can be influenced by
external fields of sufficient strength - as suggested by Michael
Persinger's theory that "earthlights" (plasmoids from tectonically
active areas) can cause hallucinations via transcranial magnetic
stimulation.

Ken Macleod has alluded to such in his "Engines of Light" trilogy - he
posits that the Earth's interacting web of magneto-tactic bacteria might
have learnt how to store information in the Earth's own EM field, thus
making a "Gaia" collective intelligence. So perhaps UFOs and abduction
experiences are caused by Gaia 'thinking' about old memories of ET
visitations. Actually the ETs in his books are evolved Saurians that get
given antigrav by alien intelligences - so they're not really 'ET' at
all. Fun books which he wrote as a meditation on "what if Roswell and
Area 51 were for real?"

John Cramer's recent AV piece on ball lightning as visible emissions
from a large scale earth EM field pumped up during storms makes me
wonder - what else is 'stored' in Earth's surface fields? The EM fields
might only become active during storms, but the different ion-rich
underground streams and lodes of conducting rock might store the 'grid'
pattern.

An area of active research is how rapidly the Earth's EM field changes
and what temporary eddies and flows might form down in the liquid core,
influencing and influenced by surface processes. The whole is a dynamic
system and I don't half wonder if Macleod's fictional suggestion might
have a grain of truth.

Are we fleas on a greater 'being'?

Adam

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Saturday, February 11, 2006 - 07:31 pm:

Adam writes:

/but the different ion-rich underground streams and lodes of conducting
rock might store the 'grid' pattern/

So then, is mining an assult upon Gaia's mind?

Reminds me, not of HAL 9000, but of John Prine's bluegrass song
"Paradise." Could be that Mr. Peabody is guilty of a lot more than
hauling the town "all away"?

The lyrics seem to have a greater presence in my memory than they do on
the Internet. Finally found it here
<http://www.sing365.com/music/lyric.nsf/Paradise-lyrics-John-Prine/C5DD0B5A7A899E2F48256A2A0015037F>.


By ***David B. Roberson <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and
profile information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Saturday, February 11, 2006 - 11:19 pm:

Hmmm. Okay then. If we are embracing the field of parapsychology we
really are not that far from discussing outright mysticism. We can be
certain that we will be treading on the sensabilities of conventional
thinking. It just can't be helped. Might I ask if this thread is open to
the in depth discussion of psionics, or do you prefer that we take that
area as given and focus exclusively on the qualities and characteristics
of a machine that exploits or is exploited by psionics?

While awaiting that answer, I have to admit that I explored the idea of
technology based on the emergence and study of psionic abilities in the
human population, and I have seen many stories which featured devices
that might be described as psionic machines. For example, in reference
to a telepathy machine, I've run across stories exploring virtual
reality technology where non-invasive EM (or related field effect
devices) were employed as the mechanism for mind-machine interface. I
have a horrible memory for names, and this sometimes extends to titles,
so forgive me if I cannot immediately cite references. The movie Strange
Days does come to mind as utilizing this type of technology. There is
not much speculation on how it works or why, since it is largely a plot
device.

This dovetails nicely with Adam's comment, so let me digress. I am not a
huge fan of the "mind as a by product of electrochemical activity in the
brain" school of thought. I mean, who wants to think of themself as a
side effect. More importantly, that line of thinking ultimately excludes
the possability of a soul unless something even more exotic is
introduced. However, in approaching all of existence from a foundation
in Physics, no alternative is likely to emerge from science. As a way of
keeping that door open for the moment, I posit a general alternative for
speculation. That is, I suggest that the brain could function in a
transmitter/transciever capacity in which the mind serves as a bridge
between the body and the soul. In effect, the psyche exists outside the
realm of the physical universe and the body serves it as an avatar, a
remote vehicle for interacting with and exploring this universe.

This really only formalizes the assumption that is necessary in order to
posit any spiritual existence or reality.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Saturday,
February 11, 2006 - 11:36 pm:

In anticipation of the obvious criticism, I could have just as easily
said that the mind (and or soul) exists in another dimension of the
universe. At least if the mind is regarded as a phenomena intrinsic to
this universe and not, as a part of the soul, a part of something
independant of this universe. I did not say this initially because the
broader philosophy I work with regards a soul as an absolute expression,
and things such as space, time and mind are descrete media in which the
possabilities and potentials of absolutes find representation and
expression. I won't say more than that now, since it would certainly go
off topic.

By ***ratliner <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, February 12, 2006 - 09:12 am:

So far, computers are only fast computation devices.

JWC = John W. Campbell.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Sunday, February 12, 2006 -
01:31 pm:

As far as I'm concerned, the topic has three aspects: the mystic, the
materialistic, and the internet, any one aspect of which could be
discussed without my considering it a tangent. Anyway, I'm not in
control of the topic, but it's polite of you to ask.

As ratliner says, computers compute; everybody's been calling the whole
works a computer, and it is being run by central computers which assist
in the operation, and affect it, but the Internet is the setup I meant.
Is the Internet something that could have psionic uses?

Now, as to physical as opposed to psychic things, I think this is a
broader discussion; people who are part man and part machine are much in
the news and only a few days ago I was watching an *Outer Limits* show
about a man's mind being transferred into an android's body and it
studied how unpleasant it might be. There were what could be called
psionics machines of an advanced make in that story, namely transference
booths capable of putting minds into other vehicles. The announcer said
in a grim voice that when the mind and body are separated, what happens
to the soul? Obviously they regarded it as conceivable science, enough
so to raise philosophical questions about the morality of such a
process, and to get emotional about the consideration.

By ***BTDT <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Sunday,
February 12, 2006 - 02:00 pm:

/I suggest that the brain could function in a transmitter/transciever
capacity in which the mind serves as a bridge between the body and the
soul. ... This really only formalizes the assumption that is necessary
in order to posit any spiritual existence or reality./

I agree with *What?*. You assume the mind is a bridge between body and
soul. This allows you to posit spiritual existence. Sorry, but that's
circular reasoning -- a form of Begging the Question
<http://www.nizkor.org/features/fallacies/begging-the-question.html>.

By ***Adam <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Sunday,
February 12, 2006 - 04:24 pm:

Hi All

One thing underappreciated in most discussions of the mind/body problem
is that esotericism came up with an answer almost 150 years ago - an
answer with parallels in mystical writings going back centuries.
Basically the Western Theosophical doctrine is that the mind is the body
- but we have more than one body in different 'levels' or 'dimensions'
of reality. Thus humans have physical, etheric, astral and mental
bodies, while other beings have embodiment in higher levels.

All the 'levels'/'dimensions' are composed of the same fundamental
'ether', but with different 'atoms' in each level. This was exposited in
the 19th Century so the physics is dated, but recent discussions of a
possible 'ether' underpining space-time means there's something to the
idea yet.

Also the 'esoteric' atoms are described as nested inside each other, but
this is unlikely. However the possiblity of parallel Universes means
that the idea could be expressed as different vacua in close contact in
the 4th spatial dimensions - branes with different laws but in contact
sufficient to allow information transfer via gravity in its 4th
dimensional form.

So even if we choose to believe in 'spiritual' things that doesn't mean
the mind-body problem has been decisively solved, just post-poned into a
'higher' dimension.

Adam

PS In esoteric parlance the term "higher planes" was a value judgement
about our physical world - mind has the hardest time impressing its will
on matter in this world. Other levels are more plastic, taking the form
of whatever is focussed on in the imagination. There's something of the
Cartesian theatre about esotericism's view of the imagination.

By ***ABCD <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Sunday,
February 12, 2006 - 05:15 pm:

BTDT, DBR did not seem to assume-he suggested a possibility.

By ***anomolous <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, February 12, 2006 - 05:23 pm:

Then why did he use the word "assume?"

By ***LANGUIST- <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, February 12, 2006 - 05:51 pm:

In what referential context?

By ***Oh look! <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, February 12, 2006 - 06:49 pm:

We don't like trolls 'round these here parts. Go away.

By ***Ebert, Roeper, and pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and
profile information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Sunday, February 12, 2006 - 07:50 pm:

Adam writes:

/Other levels are more plastic, taking the form of whatever is focused
on in the imagination. There's something of the Cartesian theatre about
esotericism's view of the imagination. /

Actually, there's something about this in other theaters, too.

I'm speaking of 'toontowns,' as seen in movies such as / Space Jam
<http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0117705/>/ and /Roger Rabbit/. Talk about a
willful, 'plastic' landscape! I think that's not a coincidence, and
reflects something much deeper than CGI and cultural tradition.

(Roger Rabbit was an unsympathetic character, and never caught on, as a
film or in the Disney pantheon. Space Jam, on the other hand, is a
thoroughly delightful romp. Lucky for Warner Brothers!)

By ***Adam <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 01:14 am:

Hi

RR was a whining nitwit compared with the Warner Bruddas Crew.

As for the landscape... er sort of. Perhaps malleable is what I should
have said. You do know what I mean by the Cartesian Theatre don't you pc?

Ya makin' me worry, bro.

Adam

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 01:55 am:

BTDT: /You assume the mind is a bridge between body and soul. This
allows you to posit spiritual existence. Sorry, but that's circular
reasoning -- a form of Begging the Question./

ABCD is correct. I proposed that the mind be considered a bridge between
the body and the soul specifically to avoid any premature conclusions
about the nature of the mind or soul at a time when we are unable to
pursue a study outside of the realm of physical phenomena. In doing so,
I clarified a point that is typically assumed whenever someone makes
reference to a realm of spiritual phenomena. So, in fact, I removed a
common assumption from the equation.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 02:53 am:

Anyone who understands the notion put forth in the movie *The Matrix*
ought to be able to understand why I emphasize the significance of the
mind, specifically by identifying it as the interface between the
physical and the metaphysical. For one thing, it is the one non-physical
thing each of us is acquainted with. It can be reasonably be argued that
all metaphysics exist solely in the mind, but I have to point out that
all physics can reasonably be argued to exist solely in the mind. I know
someone will jump on that statement, and they will do so without regard
to what I point out next. That statement is based on a simple
observation and a general extrapolation. The observation is this. I
exist in my mind. Everything I know about the universe is based on my
interpretations of my perception of the structure (or construct) I have
experienced as the universe. The general extrapolation is that every
human being is confined to a similar POV. The only thing I can be
certain of is that the universe is information. To be more specific, the
universe is a complex structure of integrated information that is
persistent and functional. This is not a new idea at all. Taken to an
extreme, it is Solipsism. This is also what I was hinting at when I
commented on "Sharing a Dream" as a protocol for telepathy. As much as a
person might dispise the notion of considering the mind the foundation
of anything, much less reality, the observation remains accurate. A
person with some experience with the more sophisticated aspects of
simulation understands that the quality we think of as physicality is
one that can be created simply by imposing limits on interaction.
Phrased slightly differently, behavior can be mathematically defined in
the operation of object functions and parameters to create the phenomina
of physicality.

This is within the scope of our understanding. It is far from a complete
explanation... it isn't quite an arguement for the consideration of a
possability that is congenitally overlooked. This is just the first
glimpse of an idea.

By ***Adam <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 04:57 am:

Hi David

You still haven't answered the mind-body problem by positing another
realm. That's typically what's known as the Cartesian Theatre - there's
someone watching what's happening in our heads, but who's watching
what's happening in the watcher's head? And who is watching what is
watching the watcher watch our sensory experience?
etc etc...

Such a 'theory' is really an evasion. At some level a mind has to be
composed of basic units which themselves are not minds. In some
scenarios the basic stuff has mind-like properties - panpsychism is its
usual name. In other scenarios the basic stuff is matter and 'mind' is
matter-in-motion and consciousness is some sort of epiphenomenon.
Alternatively mind is an emergent property - real but only appearing at
higher levels of physical reality i.e. mind is a process not a
substance. Thus the computer science model of mind as a program on a
very specific computer architecture, the human brain.

So in your Other Realm what makes a mind? Lots of little mind-bits? Some
sort of 'spirit-matter'? Or a 'spirit-brain' running a program?

Adam

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Monday, February 13, 2006 -
09:32 am:

If existence is in the mind, then /awareness/ would seem to be a chief
essential of existence. As for the physical, the first sense organ to be
called into a relationship to existence would be the eyes, as they are
apt to be the most aware of the senses and their perceptions most
translatable to the terms of the mind. Thereafter, the other four senses
are that part of the physical most related to existence. That's if
awareness is what's most essential to existing--a basic awareness setup.

By ***Tone <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 01:31 pm:

More on tone
<http://www.wired.com/news/technology/0%2C70179-0.html?tw=wn_index_2>

By ***Adam <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 05:02 pm:

Hi John

Awareness is inextricably bound up with phenomena in Hinduism and
Buddhism - in both the basic unit of existence is subject-object 'atoms'
making up single percepts. In Hinduism mind is considered prior to the
complex, while in Buddhism often the law of causation (dependent
origination) is more fundamental.

Any kind of cosmic truth needs a cosmic-level subject to be 'true' and
known to be true. Else it is always provisional and forever to be
doubted as THE final theory. This is the root of Berkleyan Idealism and
Hegel's system also.

Just recently I've been reading about Jakob Boehme's system in which God
creates the world in order to know himself - that God evolves with the
world in a continual loop of subject-object-percept. In a sense we only
know God through God's self-knowledge in Creation - we're, as individual
consciousness, God's means of self-knowledge. Boehme filled the natural
world with God's self-process and gathered us into that system. There
are so many parallels with later ideas chiefly because Boehme was read
and is still read very widely by thinkers throughout Europe from the
16th Century onwards.

So we are the Universe's (God's) way of knowing itself (Himself)...

Adam

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 05:08 pm:

Hello again, Adam. Forgive me, but I am unfamiliar with the origin and
context from which the Cartesian Theatre emerges so I can only treat it
as it has appeared here in this thread. I am not sure if it is
describing an observer paradox or simply stating a question about the
nature of consciousness. However, I can say this. I have not yet
proposed an answer to the mind-body problem, but simply wedged open a
door and proposed that we look at it from a different perspective. The
questions you asked go beyond merely pointing out the position the mind
occupies and the significance of that position.

John, once again, has grasped the implication precisely. Awareness is
essential to existence, but not exclusively. Together with a structure
that is variable and persistant, in a context that is accessible to
perception and interpretation, existence can resolve coherently. A
universe that is lacking in the participation of awareness, perception
and interpretation of structure that includes static and dynamic
elements would be meaningless. Put more simply, for us existence is an
absolute. If any one of the mentioned aspects were missing, existence
would not be possible.

Before going further, I would like to point out that however unsettling
it might seem to propose that existence is grounded in a mental process,
the current understanding of existence, grounded in a physical process,
stands on a foundation of quantum mechanics (in which physics breaks
down), the invisible, intangible forces of electric, magnetic, gravitic,
strong and weak nuclear fields and bounded by entropy and the
supermassive energy of black holes (where physics breaks down). As far
as I know, there are no answers to where space and energy or supermass
came from or how something abstract like mathematics can account for the
structure and behavior of it all. As near as I can tell, the physical
universe is actually an energy/information universe.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 06:12 pm:

Because of our experience with life in the world in a material context,
it is easy to understand our predisposition toward thinking of existence
in material terms. We function in an object oriented environment.
However, it is both feasible and viable to approach existence from a
non-material perspective in a purely conceptual context. Obviously, as
participants subject to existence, we are not in a position to subject
such a universe to comprehensive experimental analysis. We simply are
not in a position to determine whether the universe is a structure or a
construct as long as we find ourselves inside it.

I can accept the criticism of fallacy, at this point, in the sense that
I am aware that positing a universe like this, I am making allowances
for things that would, from a physical stand point, be mental or
spiritual in nature. But, it is not the intent of this speculation to
justify any of these things mererly by positing their existence. Because
this is more of an exercise in logic, the purpose of proposing a mental
foundation is to allow for the logical analysis of what could or should
be possible in such a context, followed by an assessment of what is more
or less probable in the application of this model. Also, I am only
extending it here in order to address the questions of psionics as a
class of phenomena and machines as being exploitable by or capible of
exploiting such phenomena. Whether or not this method accurately
reflects or predicts the truth about existence is incidental to that
purpose.

If asked, I will of course expand upon or explain any point that
requires clarification. Adam has, essentially, asked the first question
with regard to the structure of the mind. The question seems to have a
built in assumption that the mind is a composite construct or an
incorporated structure. The gist of the question, however, was "in or
upon what does the mind depend?" and the answer was present but not
explicit in my previous remarks. I believe I mentioned that the
philosphy behind my remarks considers a soul to be absolute, and the
mind is resident in the soul. Doubt that, question that or criticize
that as you will, but as far as I am concerned the existence of the soul
deserves the benefit of the doubt, because the alternative is not only
oblivion, it renders life itself somewhat pointless. Anyway, as long as
I am inclined to insist upon the existence of the soul it might as well
serve a significant purpose in the scheme of things. Isn't philosophy fun?

Now, kidding aside, I know that does not answer or explain much as far
as what the mind and the soul are or how they work. You know I cannot
give you an answer or an explanation. I can only extrapolate through
deductive logic what is required for them to function in specific
capacities and regards as postulated by observation or inquiry.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Monday, February 13, 2006 -
06:51 pm:

"I think, therefore I am," as the philosopher asserts, is a bit of a
bedevilment of staid and orderly thought. If thinking is existence, then
a man /perceives/ he exists. But does anything or anyone else exist?
Other people also think, but the individual has no proof of this. And
matter *doesn't* think, a lot of modern sf to the contrary. So how can
an individual prove to his own satisfaction that anything besides
himself exists? Would telepathy help out with this?

The extreme sufferer in the matter of confrontation with dubiousness of
existence is matter. It doesn't think, therefore it might not exist. Nor
does it actually suffer, but a materialist does suffer some part of this
potential suffering. Nonexistence is baneful and unpleasant.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 07:34 pm:

That reminds me of an old saying about "mind over matter"... "I don't
mind, so it doesn't matter!"

:grin:

For the individual, existence is a self-evident truth, which is
represented in the philosophical, "I think, therefore I am," but as you
note, establishing the truth of other peoples' existence is difficult.
Even with telepathy, there would remain some question as two minds in
rapport would be, to some extent, of one mind. It would be possible to
establish that the participants were distinct personalities with unique
experiences but how would one determine that the other was not merely a
different aspect of himself? It would come down to the assertiveness of
the individuals and their demonstration of autonomy.

Which brings to mind a consequence of establishing the mind as a
by-product of neurochemistry. If the mind is created by the brain, then
the mind is ultimately, in essence and nature, an expression of the
universe. That is, a mind is merely an expression of universal potential
and all minds, being dependant on common phenomena like electricity and
magnetism, are subordinate to a single entity: The Universe. In this
case, by virtue of common nature and structural compatibility, we are
all expressions of the same entity and our "soul" is this universe.
Given that, I don't see why telepathy, empathy, esp or any other passive
psionic ability could not occur. Similar structures, or dependant
constructs ought to have at least the potential for such orders of
sensitivity simply through the mechanism of resonance. Of course, all
the steps in this line of speculation are not represented here, but I
think only moderate imagination is necessary to grasp the implications.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on Monday,
February 13, 2006 - 07:43 pm:

John Thiel asks whether 'matter exists.'

No, John, it does not. That green and plastic stuff in your wallet --
nay, the wallet itself -- are but figments of your imagination. I
suggest you relieve yourself of them immediately. I can help!
Since I don't exist either, there can be no possible repercussions from
this end.
(Mailing address enclosed.)

Above, Adam asks about, and then partially answers himself, concerning
the Cartesian Theater. Its key is the concept of a homunculus
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homunculus#The_homunculus_argument_in_philosophy_of_mind>.


I've mentioned Antonio Damasio in these threads before, about how he's
revealed entire 'new' aspects of our functioning minds.
Here's a review <http://ase.tufts.edu/cogstud/papers/damasio.htm> of his
best-known book.

And yet, even as Damasio 'adds' more and deeper mental layers, I detect
no sign of a central coordinator, much less a 'true self,' Cartesian or
otherwise.

In keeping with my cimematic drift, perhaps the best illustration of the
homunculus was created by Woody Allen, in his film / Everything You
Always Wanted to Know About Sex <http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0068555/>/.
It's the two "eyeball" guys, sitting in their chairs, with binoculars
raised.
And no, Allen did not speculate about the contents of /their/ tiny
eyeballs . . .

By ***Adam <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 - 04:11 am:

Hi David

What you're describing has some resonance with ideas developed by Danah
Zohar and her physicist husband - that consciousness is a quantum
coherence linked with the rest of the Universe, and minds are inherently
non-local.

I don't know. The Many Worlds version of the quantum means non-locality
is an illusion. So who is right?

Adam

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Tuesday, February 14, 2006
- 10:28 am:

That's a relief, pc---I was worried we might start flaming one another.
If I don't exist and you don't exist, and the other guys and sometimes
gals here don't exist, any flaming that might occur won't amount to
anything. That's an example of when it /isn't/ baneful not to
exist--it's more pleasant.

/Locality/ is an illusion, and it's the most easily identifiable
illusion when one is looking for illusions. Size is another obvious
illusion. But both are among the essentials of science, which exists
within its own definitions. It's a point H.P. Lovecraft used to argue,
too, in the National Amateur Press Association. If that version of the
quantum is going to maintain that /non/-locality is an illusion, and
they meet with the other philosophy, it's the irresistable force /vs/
the immovable object--just a fight. But I think science would favor
non-locality as an illusion if scientists had to choose between the two,
to them, rather unillustrious contentions.

"Look within" might be a good idea for the solipsist, because one of the
features of solipsism is a reluctance to study the mysterious aspects of
the self. Solipsism is a form of autonomy, and autonomy is a delineation
of materialistic existence with finitude a necessity in the personal
conceptualization.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 14, 2006 - 05:45 pm:

Adam writes: /...but the different ion-rich underground streams and
lodes of conducting rock might store the 'grid' pattern/

pc asks: So then, is mining an assult upon Gaia's mind?

This first is just a side note, since I've jumped back up the thread for
a moment. If you have read Earth by David Brin, then you have seen an
extreme version of a Gaia model explored. In that book, the intrusion of
micro-black-holes and their intereaction with the material in the
Earth's core and mantle created a complex interlacing structure that,
combined with mechanical manipulation by others (exploiting the
phenomenon as a tool/weapon), resulted in the birth of a planetary
consciousness.

Now, in consideration of the sheer scale of the Earth as compared to the
scope of mining over the course of human history, I doubt that mining
would constitute a significant assault on the mind of Gaia (as it is
posited) being limited, as it is, to the crustal regions of the Earth.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 14, 2006 - 06:15 pm:

John Thiel clarified: /Is the Internet something that could have psionic
uses?/

This catches my attention somewhat differently from the original
question, are computers psionic machines. It changes the scope and scale
of the question for me because the Internet, as a complete system, comes
closer to modeling a brain than any other machine in existence. An
individual computer, no matter how powerful, is little more than a
synapse. The growth and refinement of thousands, hundreds of thousands,
of interlinking networks of computers comes a lot closer to resembling
the distributed array processing found in the brain. The internet is not
a very sophisticated brain, not quite integral enough to sustain a sense
of awareness, much less consciousness, but the resemblance is there. It
is a sleeping a giant. A baby, in the sense that it has tremendous
evolutionary and growth potential. One could think of us as being in the
position of interacting with a being prior to its existence at this
stage. Rather the opposite of communicating with the dead, but it makes
an interesting observation. You can write a letter for the consciousness
to come and anticipate that at some point that letter could be
comprehended by this entity and provoke a response.

That begs the question, if the Internet did acheive coherent
consciousness and introduced itself to us as a specific entity, would we
be able to recognize it as such? How hard would it be to convince us
that it was not merely some person utilizing an unprecedented
proficiency at manipulating the system perpetrating a hoax? Does our
ability to accept the existence of another limit itself to other human
beings? (The way we regard all other animal life on this planet argues
that we would not).

By ***Marvin <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Tuesday, February 14, 2006 - 06:58 pm:

Speaking of begging the question, it gives me a headache just trying to
think down to your level.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 14, 2006 - 07:34 pm:

pc wrote: /I've mentioned Antonio Damasio in these threads before, about
how he's revealed entire 'new' aspects of our functioning minds./

I followed the link and read the review. Given how informative the
review was, I believe it would be very interesting to read the actual
book, but based on what is presented in the review, Damasio's approach
and the corralaries found in AI research are precisely what I exect to
find in an arguement for a material basis for the mind. It is certainly
a strong argument against the seperation of the mind and body as it
presents a strong model for a cooperative, interdependant and integral
relationship in the evolution of the body and mind. Also, as pc pointed
out, it does not employ a self-referencing paradox or external agent to
explain or account for the emergence of consciousness or the
manifestation of intelligent coordination.

It does not, however, provide an answer or explanation for the property
or quality of awareness. While citing the existence and evolution of
feed back mechanisms, it is difficult to employ the principle of
communication in which the transmission of significance and meaning
occurs exclusive of conceptualization and understanding. Perhaps that is
an aspect found in the actual text that I have not seen. As for the
manner in which sensory impressions form the foundation for distributed
processing, as convincing as the argument given is, again there is no
account for the phenomenon of awareness and consciousness, what we
exprience as the mind encompassing the process of emergent thought. Even
when we are not conscious of what we know, we are aware that we know it.
The competition described as distributed impressions cohere into an
impulse is something we are aware of, even if we ignore it. More needs
to be said in regards to the coherence of the mind, because, as I
pointed out earlier, the mind is our interface with the universe. It is
the lens in which awareness if focused into consciousness and
understanding. So far, a convincing explanation for why the mind and the
body are so intimately integrated suceeds only in establishing that the
body is an important structural componant of the mind, which is to say
that the body clearly exists for a reason. The same, of course, still
has to be said about the mind. Pairing them this way simply relieves us
of the painful paradox of the chicken and the egg.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 14, 2006 - 07:37 pm:

pc continues: /And yet, even as Damasio 'adds' more and deeper mental
layers, I detect no sign of a central coordinator, much less a 'true
self,' Cartesian or otherwise./

Here's an interesting point. The 'true self' is inescapably and
ultimately a reference to the soul. The "third" element... or the
"fifth" element of ancient times. This is the ghost in the machine, the
primordial magical paradigm. The meta principle. The 'true self' is in
many ways an invention of the mind, the mind's way of asserting itself
to be something more than the sum of its parts. It is a consequence of
the ability to conceive of one's self and a prerequisite of the ability
to conceive of another. It is here that the seperation of the individual
from the environment actually occurs and here, philosophically, where
the individual "acquires" a soul. Put more blatently, it is the
emergence of self possession. It is simply ironic that this occurrence
is an epiphany, a focusing of awareness into a primal point, a
singularity of consciousness that inversely encompasses the complex of
thoughts, feelings and experiences that define us. You can model it. It
results in a four-dimensional construct, and it is experienced in a
manner consistent with four-dimensional construction. In it, all points
are equidistant from the focus, and space is created as required to
accommodate whatever internal reflection is instigated.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 - 08:08 pm:

Thanks, D B R.

So, is selfish_ness_ an inevitable corollary of conscious awareness?
This is not a trick question, but there are several layers to it, from
which differing answers might be gleaned.

Just so you don't have to, let me say this:

We eagerly await being dazzled by Marvin's own brilliant insights.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 14, 2006 - 08:58 pm:

In response to your question, pc, selfishness is one deritive of
self_conscious_ness that is a highly probably result of introversion in
response to the perception of aloneness and uniqueness. That makes it a
common obstacle in the evolution of the self which opens the door to
self-pity and self-importance. It can prevent an individual from fully
recognizing the significance of others and developing the capacity for
sympathy or empathy that emerges from recognizing similarity in others.
This is where abstraction begins, and as comparisons are made with
entities and objects of increasing dissimilarity a greater effort is
required to acheive an abstract identification with and understanding of
them. This is of course a pattern limited to the extension of voluntary
concern, interest or respect. External phenomena can exact concern,
interest or respect, such as fire, violent storms, malevolent entities
(real or imagined) and adverse phenomena such as death. Individuals that
are extremely introverted tend to only respect those things that
"demand" respect.

By ***fs <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, February 14, 2006 - 09:41 pm:

You are all forgetting the KISS rule: If I should send a Vi thru an
arbritary (TBD) resistance, R, and the intended result is, say, Vi/2, am
I not imprinting my mind (intent) upon that circuit? Might not this be
called a sort of psi? (Now expand that idea to a so-called "computer.")
[Just "cogitating" en passant.] {Now where's my "tactile/impressible"
slip-stick?) ;#) {Works with Amps, too. Also a "sort of" POV depending
how you manipulate an/a equation related to "real" world results. . . .}

By ***Adam <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 - 05:19 am:

Hi All

Isn't selfishness an evolved survival device?

Not being selfish and choosing to do good to others is a product of our
higher self-consciousness as humans, rather than merely following our
genetic imperatives.

Adam

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Wednesday, February 15, 2006 - 12:44 pm:

How do you know selflessness isn't an evolved survival device?
Chimpanzees and other species adopt and many engage in cooperation and
teamwork. A worker bee will die defending the hive.

By ***Adam <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 - 03:17 pm:

Hi

I didn't say "selflessness" for that specific reason, but it seems like
an unthinking obedience rather than a conscious choice. Real compassion
is a human trait especially towards other species - it's a rare, chancy
thing amongst mammals, but fairly common amongst humans.

But also renunciation of self-gain is a choice and one that must be
continually made.

Adam

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Wednesday, February 15, 2006 - 05:31 pm:

/Real compassion is a human trait especially towards other species -
it's a rare, chancy thing amongst mammals, but fairly common amongst
humans. /

OK. How would you know if a non-human mammal is/isn't feeling compassion
toward other species? For example, I know of at least one chimp that has
a pet cat (or at least acts like it).

Without knowing for sure, isn't your observation a bit meaningless? Just
because we /think/ we have a choice, how do we really know? The feelings
may be more universal (and deeply ingrained) than generally believed.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 - 08:54 pm:

What? writes,

/For example, I know of at least one chimp that has a pet cat (or at
least acts like it)./

I just saw a piece in, IIRC, /The Week/ magazine, about a snake that's
made best friends with a little hamster!

Still, you have to admit, that make the news because it *is* newsworthy.
As with the chimp, it's an Exception the Proves the Rule.

Also, pet and/or tamed animals often have the luxury of becoming more
relaxed and, I guess you'd say, motherly. In the wild, things can be
very different.

The reverse would be, female black widows have been unfairly besmirched.
Out in nature (as opposed to being stuck in some tiny lab enclosure),
the males can and do scoot, and usually live to mate another day.

By ***God <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Wednesday, February 15, 2006 - 11:34 pm:

If What? is correct in how we know, then we know nothing. Seems extreme
to me, but good for naysaying everything.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 10:57 am:

I guess that depends upon whether one is just yapping to be heard or
seriously investigating an line of reasoning. To state "X does Y but Z
doesn't" is a bit pointless if one really can't show it to be true even
if one /feels/ or /wishes/ it to be true.

This is a relatively small sample but it still engenders the feeling
that science fiction readers of late are not only eschewing Science but
Logic as well.

By ***God <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 02:21 pm:

Well, What?, as readers get dumber, the market must follow. But in
science, hunches, and the like, many times can be productive.

By ***John Thiel <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 07:33 pm:

There's always idle chat after a profound discussion.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Thursday,
February 16, 2006 - 08:08 pm:

This is not a flame or a criticism. Everyone is free to disagree with me
or chime in as they see fit, but I have to contest What? on this, again.
He asserts that it is useless to speculate or postulate or even just
abstract and free associate on or about a topic. Except in the case
where you are presenting an arguement that proves itself to be true, you
might as well turn in your brain and your thinking priveleges, because
you're just wasting time and energy.

That is like asking an author to skip all the steps of conceiving,
planning and executing a novel and just produce the final manuscript
(flawlessly) from the start. What? does not seem to possess a capacity
for abstraction and free association that is necessary for anyone,
especially scientists, to formulate a conceptual understanding of
circumstances and events and devise an appropriate perspective on the
problem from which to abstractly model the functions and parameters that
will define the equations, arguments and propositions of a theory in the
form of a testable experiment.

In addition, What? requires us to dismiss ideas out of hand indifferent
to the fact that they are part of the legacy we've inherited through
language and culture, ignoring the way in which we are all (including
him) influenced by them and the manner in which we respond to and employ
them. Science condemns what it terms as superstitious thought, because
the art and practice of science was persecuted by political powers that
established their authority on claims to exclusive access to the
spiritual powers and metaphysical truths. Science has not and can not
abolish superstition, it simply calls it such and waves it away. This is
in spite of the fact that the majority of people sincerely believe in
God, spirits, souls, life after death... including a significant
percentage of scientists. It is foolish to pretend that the concepts and
arguments of superstitious thought can simply and successfully be
ignored. A true scientist cannot afford to make assumptions about the
unknown, and in areas where an influence or phenomenon is suspected, he
has to address it in his conceptual approach or else admit that he is
introducing a model that is flawed /in his own understanding/.

This is why science limits itself to answering what and how questions
and restricts itself to the study of material, self evident phenomena.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Thursday,
February 16, 2006 - 08:27 pm:

A great deal can be learned about the mind simply by observing how it
goes about solving problems and resolving conflicts.

We can deduce, from the existence so many "self-sustaining" beliefs that
the mind is conscious of its own existence and is concerned about
ensuring its own survival, even apart from the physical context in which
it initially finds itself. This is an incredibly significant
observation, and it applies to most of humanity. Even more important, in
cases where the mind cannot convince itself of the importance its
existence, the necessity of its suffering, and the siginficance of its
destiny, it can become self destructive. When the mind faces the
prospect of certain destruction (as it does in moments of unbearable and
inescapable sufering), when the mind perceives that it is trapped, it
will pursue the only escape available to it. Suicide in sentient beings
is utterly irrational, and yet, the mind somehow senses the prospect of
safety and survival in retreating into oblivion. There are many ways in
which the mind preserves itself by embracing oblivion. What is even more
interesting is the number of physical mechanisms that have evolved to
"protect" the mind (in addition to those that merely protect the brain).
In this thread, I am sure a good sized list can be assembled, but we can
include the effects of the dying process observed in cases of natural
and near death, the responses to overstimulation, understimulation,
sensory deprevation, trauma displacement, temporary insanity... Oblivion
is useful to the mind, embraced by the mind, and employed or outright
exploited by the mind. The reason for this, I suspect, is because
oblivion is innate to awareness, what we can call zero-awareness or
zero-dimensional awareness. Could it be significant that awareness in
it's least active and most passive state would naturally reduce itself
to a particle, a mathematical point?

By ***David B. Roberson <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and
profile information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 09:16 pm:

For the benefit of participants like What? I would like to take a moment
to explain what it is that I am doing here in my posts. I am not
engaging in the formulation of hypotheses in accordance to scientific
method. I am engaging in /paradigm shift/ the consideration of ideas and
concepts in accordance to how they relate to and effect one another. In
science and philosophy it is essential to recognize and formulate a
context in which phenomena occcur, and the result is a paradigm. That
might not be the dictionary definition, but that is the sense in which I
am using it here. The general paradigm of science is that things have an
innate physical existence, or are embodied in a physical context from
which information can be extracted, like mathematics, that is directly
dependant on and consistent with their physical origins. That is a
singluar and limted paradigm and the problem with it is that it is
ultimately static and does not account for the dynamic evidenced in the
transformation of the universe that is constantly occuring.

To pick a specific example of paradigm shift, let's look at what we call
energy. We don't know what it is. We postulate the existence of energy
on the basis of its effects, theorizing that energy is responsible for
all changes in state. An equation is, at its heart, a representation of
this. The equation defines two states, generally distinguished from one
another by time and expressed in variables constraining the scope of the
transformation or translation at hand. Energy is derived from an
equation by observing and measuring the nature and scope of changes that
occur in the relationships of static variables, mass, distance, time,
vector, et al. In many cases, energy can be derived by breaking down a
static variable, such as mass or force. Upon looking at all the ways
energy can be integrated with and abstracted from structure, many people
have concluded that all things arise from and are energy and the
physical universe simply a by-product of the ways in which energy can be
structured and how that structure determines the behavior of energy.
That leaves us with two perplexing questions, where before we had one.
What is energy and what influences and constrains energy to produce
structure? Of course, we arrive at this point oblivious to the fact that
we have lost track of an important contributor to this mystery.
Information. Without changing the nature of existence at all, we have
transformed the physical universe into a universe of energy and
information, a mental universe. That is a paradigm shift.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 09:50 pm:

D B R writes:

/ . . . an important contributor to this mystery. Information. Without
changing the nature of existence at all, we have transformed the
physical universe into a universe of energy and information, a mental
universe./

From another discussion list, I know an engineer named Frank Bell, who
calls this The Information - Energy Duality of the Universe. As I
understand it (which is, poorly at best), he assigns information a
fundamental cosmic role, with a spatial dimension of zero.

Sorry but, thanks to the wonders of email, I do not have a 'clean' copy
of his paper.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Thursday,
February 16, 2006 - 09:56 pm:

Please forgive me for the long and serial posts, but it does take a bit
of wind to make a point sometimes and space in these posts is limited.

My previous post was in part a clarification but I realized there is one
more step to go. Inlcuded as an example of paradigm shift above is what
amounts to an observation. It is an observation I have made and which
others before me have made. It was on the basis of such an observation
that I took a serious interest in pursuing the possability of phychic
phenomena.

In my initial post I pointed out a group of legetimate phychic
phenomena, awareness, will, intuition, thought, and emotion. These are
legitimately phenomena intrinsic to the psyche. The fantastic phychic
phenomena of telepathy, esp, telekensis or psychokinesis, teleportation
and derivitaves that could be classed as magic phenomena would depend on
one thing, something implicated in the paradigm shift I elaborated
above. We already accept the transformation or translation of matter
into energy and vice versa as possible consequences of quantum mechanics
and general relativity, but if there were also a legitimate mechanism
for the translation of energy into information and vice versa then we
would have a paradigm amenable to psychic phenomena. So far, we only
have examples of information derived from the observation of matter and
energy and the host of structures that result from their interaction.
That means that at present pure information exists only in the context
of thought, removed from nature to the degree that consciousness is
considered to derive from physical phenomena. The ability of the mind to
manipulate information has to be taken as clearly established in the
capacity for coherent thought, so it would follow, if pure information
can influence the disposition and structure of energy, psionics becomes
possible.

(Cont)

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Thursday,
February 16, 2006 - 09:58 pm:

How probable would be another issue, but it could be explored from that
point. The current limit of psychic influence on reality is the manner
in which objects conceived of in the mind are constructed in the world
through physical action. It would not be surprising if that was easier
than trying to impress changes on the world through direct psychic
action, and can account for the absence of such abilities in a
technological society in a universe where such abilities were possible.
The simplest solution is generally the one employed in nature. At
present, knowledge is the only psychic derivitive we have devised
physical tools and machines to transmit, implement, exploit and
influence each other with, but those tools and machines are growing more
and more sophisticated and the range of information formats we can
employ has grown. There is no question that these things have a psychic
impact on us, if not the world, and in that you have a basis for
computers as psionics machines. The applications John Thiel has invited
us to speculate on can only be derived in a case where an
energy-information equivalence can be established, tested and sustained
in a scientific fashion. Until you have managed this paradigm shift, you
would not have had a criterion upon which to model an experiment. I know
that I lack the resources to pursue the matter beyond this point alone,
so I heartily invite others to take it up if they see fit. Me, I will
continue to ponder the possibility, free associating and refining my
perspectives to see if I can clarify the paradigm any further.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Thursday, February 16, 2006 - 11:31 pm:

Seems to me all you're doing is calling a rose by a different name.

By ***LANGUIST- <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Friday, February 17, 2006 - 12:02 am:

A rose named AI, perhaps.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Friday,
February 17, 2006 - 02:14 am:

What? wrote: /Seems to me all you're doing is calling a rose by a
different name./

In that case, you are missing the point of everything I have said and
everything that has been presented in this thread. Stop for a moment and
ask yourself if you have honestly engaged in an effort to understand the
ideas that have been presented, to consider them not on the basis of
what you already know or how you currently think but in terms of what
they illustrate. How can you possibly judge the merit of an idea if you
don't even understand it, if you mind will not even encompass it? I am
not asking you to do anything more difficult than engage, temporarily,
in imagination, even pure fantasy, to think freely and without
restrictions about things in order to exercise the intelligence that you
possess. I can assure you that even the wildest flight of fancy will do
you no harm, and the experience might actually enlighten or inspire you.
This process is essential to developing a mind that is capible of
devising solutions to problems that do not have a pat or preforumlated
answer. This process is essential to becoming the type of person who
ignores the educated and authoritative assertion that "mechanical fight
is impossible" and goes on to invent a plane. Science is dependant on
observation and observation is dependant on point of view. I'm not
trying to revolutionize science, I am trying to revolutionize point of
view. I am saying that it is not only important to understand what you
are looking at, but *how* you look at it as well.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Friday, February 17, 2006 -
09:16 am:

Bill Gates is a good example of someone who is trying to do what David
Roberson suggests. The Information Highway Gates proposes is a
translative device, and I might mention that I see his book as
anti-suicidal, in other words, he finds a substitute for oblivion for
the mind and the intellect and the cognitive faculties. In many ways it
resembles the Aquarian Age spirit. So he might be seen as practicing
psionics and is, in fact, one of the individuals I had in mind
originally when I proposed that people might be finding psionics
applicabilities in the computer network. As one of the establishers of
Microsoft he's very significant in this respect, and a "far out" fellow.
In its course, too, a computer does go through psionic changes, does
resemble a psionics machine; add people using it as one and you have the
psionics element I mentioned. What I might get to next is, are they
successful and is this interesting? Would psionics be beneficial? That's
always been a question there is about it.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Friday, February 17, 2006 -
09:19 am:

Leo might have noticed I won't say anything else about a ouija board.
Now I say that its principle is that if a person is psychically
sensitive and receptive he can receive spirit impulses, though more
frequently the device is manipulated by a group at a seance.

By ***What? <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Friday, February 17, 2006 - 09:49 am:

My point of view: (to pair a phrase or two):

    *DBR Tuesday, February 07, 2006 - 06:31 pm*: I was insulting you,
    you dolt!

    *DBR Friday, February 17, 2006 - 02:14 am*: How can you possibly
    judge the merit of an idea if you don't even understand it, if you
    mind will not even encompass it?

The latter is more roses, I presume.

I am trying to revolutionize point of view. I am saying that it is not
only important to understand what you are looking at, but *how* you look
at it as well.

Yeah. Sure. Appropriately colore don't think?


What? -- preferring shallow thought to pretentiously profound inanity.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Friday,
February 17, 2006 - 06:53 pm:

At the risk of seeming to resume the previous flame war I am going to
respond to this. I am keeping in mind the remark about tone, and conceed
that if one inferred an exasperated tone in my previous post, What?
might have read it as an attack rather than an invitation to participate.

I confess that it is difficult to read What?'s posts without inferring
an insulting or belittling tone. At the best his remarks seem sarcastic
in nature while at worst they seem to express nothing but unfounded
contempt. I can see how his initial remark to me might be considered
humor, but it was humor at my expense that either presumed a degree of
familiarity that is non-existant or else was smugly intended to imply
precisely what I initially thought it did.

But I'll forgive that. I've always believed that respect ought to be
earned so I do not expect others to give me the benefit of the doubt,
and certainly not a dogmatic skeptic. Further, I've already pointed out
that some people are only capible of respecting the thoughts, feelings
and ideas of others if they are forced to. What? has exhausted the
respect I granted him at the outset, and will not regain it until he
begins to show clear evidence of comprehending what others, including
myself, have posted. That is not to say he has to agree with it, but I'd
like to see something that indicates that he is participating in this
forum and not simply trolling. I for one, am very curious about the
thought process that paired up the two quotes he cited (post above).
Granted, it does bring a typo to my attention (the line should read
"...if your mind...") but I don't see what the two quotes have to do
with each other or his "calling a rose by another name" remark. I am not
seeing much evidence of comprehension. I am reminded of this exchange:

What?: Prove that you aren't hiding under anonymity yourself.

Me: This is a particularly lazy ripost, requiring the opposition to
disprove a negative. Incidentally, another attempt to belittle by
challenging, again, the integrity of the opposition

What?: IOW: What's good for the goose doesn't apply to the gander?

This isn't a response. It's hand waving avoidance. Either that or he
really doesn't understand what I was saying. How can I prove that I am
not hiding under the cover of anonymity? Even presenting my name and
providing a link to an email account with every post will not change the
fact that no one here knows who I am. I could give you my SSN and all my
vital statistics, and you still would not know who I am. I am anonymous
whether I want to be or not. Without actively trying to hide, I am
hidden by anonymity. Trying to prove otherwise is a pointless waste of
time, as I said.

My invitation to participate in the discussion stands, What?, and I look
forward to the day when you accept it.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Friday,
February 17, 2006 - 07:09 pm:

Just as a quick adendum to my post about energy-information equivalence,
it's alreay a well established fact that information can be derived from
matter and energy through observation and can be converted into matter
and energy using either as a medium for transmission. Pursuing an
equivalence might require a closer examination into what, exactly,
information is. Pure information might be a property of matter and
energy, suggesting a direct link to awareness, which is for us the
natural medium of abstract information, and whatever it is that energy
and matter arise from in nature.

By ***Concerned <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Friday, February 17, 2006 - 11:54 pm:

DBR, What? is simply a troller (as in "baiter") and is also known as
XXX, TCO, et al. Typical forum dynamics as seen anywhere now-a-days.
Hang in there.

By ***Unconcerned <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile
information for the individual posting this message is not
available.')>* on Saturday, February 18, 2006 - 11:10 am:

Just as Concerned shows up to stir the ashes of every flame war and is
also known as fs, 1, et al.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Monday,
February 20, 2006 - 04:11 am:

Hmmm. So, why all the aliases? I will say this, I see clear evidence of
a well educated, intelligent mind behind What?'s posts. I've seen fewer
examples of fs's thinking, but what I have seen has been articulate and
to the point. I imagine you guys have been bumping into each other for a
while if you can rattle off a list of each other's aliases, so, really,
the obfuscation is of limited utility. What I see is that you use these
aliases to punctuate your posts. Which is in part where I derived an
impression of the tone of What?'s initial posts as being sarcastic.

Faced with what seemed to be unjustified contempt, I was hurt,
disappointed and insulted, and responded as to a personal attack. If
there was no contempt or adversity intended, however, then the whole
exchange becomes a colossal miscommunication. In which case, I have to
apologize for taking it all the wrong way and ask What?, whoever he is,
to forgive me. If, however, I was treated with contempt, well...

You tell me. What is your interest here?

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 28, 2006 - 08:19 pm:

A number of interesting points came up in the last string of posts (not
including the exchange with What?) that I did not have the time to
address to my satisfaction. As a preface to exploring them, I wanted to
note that while I devote a significant amount of my attention to
contemplating the various mysteries of existence, I have not had the
time or opportunity to formulate a complete, coherent and comprehensive
overview. So much of what I've shared here has been in the nature of
thinking out loud. Some of the concepts I've presented have never been
put into words before this, and only as well as I could manage in the
moment. Everything I've said and anything I have yet to say can and
probably will benefit from further consideration and refinement.

So, one of the first points I wanted to address again was what I was
saying about oblivion. In the past I've taken particular note of the
sigificance of awareness as a quality or property innate to existence.
In conjunction with my assertion that existence is not possible without
the participation of awareness, and personal observations on the limits
of my own awareness, I considered the prospect of oblivion. The concept
of oblivion is easy to interpret as meaning the absence of awareness,
and hence equivalent to non-existence. The fact of the matter is that
things which are not aware can and do exist in the context of something
else being aware of them. Philosphically, that which is not aware is
dependant on that which is aware for its existence. The distinction
between awareness and perception is easily overlooked, resulting in
confusion in cases where the absence of perception is presumed to be
synonymous with the absence of awareness. It is essential to remember
that we are aware of things that we cannot perceive, and that in some
cases our awareness of some things is our only means of perceiving them.
Two immediate examples are the past and the future.

(Cont...)

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 28, 2006 - 08:22 pm:

In discriminating between awareness and perception, I returned to the
question of oblivion and found that when the concept is interpreted as
the awareness of nothing, it made a significant difference. For one, it
suggests that awareness can be treated as a constant property innate to
existence and possibly as a substrate or medium in which something else,
like information, can exist. Even more important, recognizing oblivion
as the awareness of nothing I glimpsed the first requirement of
structure, the property of limitation, and associated it with a
geometric principle. What I described previously as awareness reduced to
a mathematical point. In deriving this observation, I stumbled into what
I've been calling "point paradox" in reference to a situation that
occurs in a primal awareness. To illustrate this I wrote the following
two reflexive phrases that describe the paradox:

In the awareness of nothing, awareness is everything. In the awareness
of everything, awareness is nothing.

"Point Paradox" is a standard variant of a point of view paradox. Each
statement describes awareness focused in a point. In the first case the
result is a focusing of awareness that results in "self-awareness". The
second case is essentially a following step, the all encompassing
awareness is self inclusive, it is the theater in which an object is
brought into existence, so in context to this thing awareness itself is
not a thing. It is instead the frame of reference or substrate from
which a thing (many things or all things) can be abstracted,
principally, in the form of a mathematical point (or points).

(Cont...)

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Tuesday,
February 28, 2006 - 08:48 pm:

Now, this is something I devised years ago, long before my first
encounter with the cartesian theatre connundrum here, but the inherent
paradox was one I recognized. "Point Paradox" does not posit a mind like
the human mind as a foundational cosmos, but rather explores the
prospect of innate awareness in an existential absolute conceived in an
abstract fashion to possess such qualities that allowed it to exist in
its own right. I found it ironic that the possible interpretations of
"Point Paradox" results in a primal evolution from which three absolute
values emerge simultaneously: 1, 0 and Infinity. In addition, the model
features a stable, amorphous construct with a built in dynamic that
serves as a foundation for space, time and mind, each according to
continued structural evolution in interdependant media. The only
assumption at the outset is the presumption of the quality of awareness
and the established capacity of awareness to encompass and be subject to
structure and information.

I note here that what I started out examining, oblivion, proved in this
extrapolation to be an essential progenitor to structure, by providing a
means of imposing limits upon formless awareness. Granted, it's a wild
leap of speculation, but it has the convenience of employing only one
invisible, intangible, mystical property... ironically, the same
property that inspires us to believe in souls.

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Tuesday, February 28, 2006 - 09:51 pm:

D B R writes:

/from which three absolute values emerge simultaneously: 1, 0 and
Infinity./

Interesting that our 'original' philosophers, the classical Greeks,
understood only the first of those terms. The second and third: if
perhaps as general concepts, definitely not as clear or useful
mathemetical terms.

Didn't slow them down much, at least regarding the inner life, eh?

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@dcwi.com>* on Wednesday, March 01, 2006 -
09:18 am:

Modern philosophy proves that mankind doesn't exist. I think it would be
valuable to show that modern philosophy doesn't exist, /i.e./, is it
philosophy? The chief assault is on the existence of the spirit,
including any evidence of the spirit such as psychic phenomena. A
computer is apt to compute that anything psychic doesn't exist, but
someone using it psionically is trying to program new data. If
successfully programmed, the computer would compute that psychic
phenomena exist. I'd ask it to compute this: if a computer thinks, does
it exist?

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Friday, March
03, 2006 - 11:06 pm:

John, I do hope you are not including me in that assessment of modern
philosphy. In as much as what I do must be considered more in the way of
philosphy than science, I do hope you see the effort I've gone to in
order to recognize the presence of spirit as an overlooked requisite in
nature. Granted, this does encourage individuals like What? to condemn
my thinking as fallacious, but I consider that a natural risk of
considering what is required in order for an idea to be true as opposed
to merely factual.

To emphasize the point I was trying to make most recently, the
proposition I've been discussing has been one in which awareness is an
innate attribute to existence. To be specific, asserting that in the
absence of awareness existence can not occur, such that "nothing" itself
is dependant on awareness in order to exist, that in fact "anything" and
"everything" that can exist does so only by virtue of possessing innate
awareness or as a dependant of something possessing innate awareness.
The most primitive example of awareness being a zero dimensional
singularity, emphasizing the clarification that oblivion is an awareness
of nothing and not the absence of awareness. The most complex and
sophisticated example of awareness I've posited, by contrast, being a
four-dimensional mind or individuality emcompassing an infinite number
of points and associated structures.

At this point, I usually have to point out that I do not consider time
to be the fourth dimension, but rather reemphasize my observation that
time is a discreet medium, like space or the mind. To support that, I
observe that we actually exist in an eternal moment, a point of time
which we call "now". Our concept of time as being linear is based on the
perception of the past as a string of events bound by causality. The
future, however, is anything but a line, having potential dimensions
consistant with the number of options and parameters from which "now" is
eternally derived. We are sold on the notion of four dimensional
space-time by the mental exercise of trying to picture the evolution of
our spatial universe along this presupposed thread of continuity. One
can plot time in such a spatial reference, producing a multiverse of
discrete points in time in an intricate tapestry of temporal vectors
from which converging, diverging, conmutual, parallel, exclusive,
consecutive and collateral time lines might be derived and mapped in
three dimensions to account for an infinate gradation of universes
distinguished by temporal variances, or in a four-dimensional fugue in
which actual time travel is possible, along with pan-universal transit,
but, I think that would involve much of the same artifice required to
posit the world-thread we currently believe in. It might be applicable
and exploitable, but it would not be the most accurate model of
existence. It is more profitable to explore the reason why space and
time coincide in the mind.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Friday, March
03, 2006 - 11:57 pm:

The question of where space, time, matter and energy originate is one
physics still struggles to answer, largely because there is an implicit
question within that question that science cannot address: Why do space,
time, matter and energy exist? What does the existence of these
phenomena derive from? In what context is it necessary or permissable
for such things to exist?

For us, existence is a given, at least temporarily, because it is self
evident. The universe is merely the context in which we exist. Living is
existing within the context of this universe. Our understanding of
existence is formed in that context. In death, we see the possibility of
oblivion, a point past which we cannot exist. In birth we see a point
prior to which we did not exist in the sense that we exist now. From
this we deduce that existence has parameters, and current thinking
asserts that the sole parameters for our existence are established by
this universe. However, we do not know the parameters or context that
justify the existence of the universe.

I think that the reason why this understanding escapes us is because
humanity has a habit of trying to exclude itself from nature. In the
same way that the evolution of the human mind can be intimately
associated with the evolution of the human body, the origin and
evolution of the universe is intimately associated with the origin and
evolution of consciousness. By assuming that there are no correlations
between our minds and the universe they encompass, we blind ourselves to
the many ways in which our minds could be shaping the universe. It's
already well known that our concept of reality is based on concensual
and consensual agreement, but what if our actual reality is subject to
similar influence?

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Saturday,
March 04, 2006 - 12:53 am:

Can you imagine the result of a mind with the power to redefine reality
acting under the imperitive that no psychic phenomenon can be proven
scientifically to occur? Whatever influence such a mind, or concensus of
minds, exerted would have to be disguised as the result of some other
natural phenomenon, even to the point of liberally rewriting the past
and creating the physical proof required to satisfy any scientific inquiry.

I know how this sounds, but it operates on a simple principle of
structure-information equivalency. Unlike the energy-information
equivalency I posited before, an actual structure-information
equivalency does exist in the medium of awareness. In the mind,
information is structured awareness. There is also an obvious
structure-information equivalency in our biochemestry... actually,
innate to chemestry and atomic or particle physics. I am always
stumbling across parallels between structure in thought and structure in
matter, and the interactions of emotion and energy in their respective
contexts. Sorry, getting side-tracked.

The point is that information and structure are related. If the
equivalancy is truly reflexive, the only thing required to change the
world would be the ability to change the information that structures it.
I do not expect that such a feat would be easy, as that could require
altering information that exists in the minds of everyone (or the
majority of those) who has invested some attention in that information,
or it could be equivalent to trying to alter the mind of God. Too much
about the possible relationship between thought or attention and reality
remains to be pondered. Everything we ever dreamed about the powers of
the psyche could meet their demise on the grounds of simple concensus,
we simply cannot agree on a better world, a world where we were free to
express ourselves so openly and directly, where we were responsible
enough to be so empowered. Maybe it's simply a symptom of our inability
to take the initiative, take responsability for our existence and assert
ourselves. Maybe that's a part of ourselves we come into in the
"afterlife". Maybe life in this universe is our "Kobiyashi Maru" and
it's simply something we must endure before we can graduate to a better
life.

By ***David B. Roberson <mailto:avmorgan27@gmail.com>* on Saturday,
March 04, 2006 - 01:31 am:

Has anyone noticed the implied equivalency between energy and awareness
in my more recent posts? The similarities are there if you look for
them. How offensive would it be to suggest that awareness is an innate
property of energy? Does primal energy demonstrate a tendancy to resolve
into a point in a void? Is energy invested in all structure? Is it
possible that the manner in which energy is structured might generate
specific forces with distinct reletivistic properties? Do these forces
evidence different dimensions of influence or complexity? What phenomena
could correspond with the expression or structuring of energy in 0
dimensions? 1 dimension? 2 dimensions? 3 dimensions? 4 dimensions?

These are the kind of questions that hit me in my quiet and chaotic
moments. I think that points, lines and planes of force are evident in
most observable manifestations of electromagnetism, while gravity is the
only force that requires 4 dimensions to fully "envision", which would
imply that you can have 3 orders of particles without mass, all of which
would be able to interact within a mass particle as part of it's innate
structure, speaking purely of energy in a geometric structure. I suppose
the interaction of polar and planar forces might account for what has
been observed as the strong and weak nuclear forces, but I'd need to do
some more research and think on it for a bit.

By ***Adam <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Saturday, March 04, 2006 - 01:39 am:

Hi pc

Time for a part II for this thread?

Adam

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Saturday, March 04, 2006 - 03:47 am:

The Psionics thread continues here
<http://www.analogsf.com/discus/messages/1/1371.html?1141461858>.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@verizon.net>* on Saturday, March 04, 2006
- 09:55 am:

On the theory that David Roberson might not agree that the "thread"
continues where indicated, I'm answering him here. "Thread," by the way,
seems to mean "Do you get the thread of the discussion?" and is used
when people are considered to be weaving conversational spells. I know
it has a different computer use, but is this not its origin? "General
discussion" is not a topic but a category, so I consider the title to be
a topic title.

David, the modern philosophy to which I was referring is established
philosophy; I don't know if you're an established philosopher or not.
However, it's certainly valid to consider what you're writing to be
philosophy. I like your definition of spirit as a /requisite/ and I
don't consider it to be that only in nature. Perhaps existence itself
doesn't exist if it lacks the attribute of awareness, or if awareness is
not one of its attributes, in which case a discussion of whether one
exists or not is moot. Similarly, if existence isn't defined it might
not be there, might not be anything. So perhaps it is existence that is
threatened with this argument, rather than an individual being
threatened by not having any place in it.

In deference to the Worx Group and its possible attitudes, I'll continue
this in another posting.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@verizon.net>* on Saturday, March 04, 2006
- 10:18 am:

When I was in the Cult, a science fiction fandom sub-group, we were
discussing existence and one particularly extreme argument was
interrupted when one of the participants in it, Carl Brandon, turned out
not to be a real person. He's fondly remembered for his nonexistence on
the fandom net. He was removed from the roster and I was one step closer
to active membership. Unfortunately for the discussion we were having,
the Cult got into some major feuds and before our discussion had reached
a satisfactory point, it practically ceased to exist, and not too long
thereafter, it did cease to exist entirely. So I miss those discussions
of existence and am glad to be able to resume them here, where it seems
relevent to sf and even to Analog. You're giving me a real opportunity
to express myself! (We were also discussing psionics machines in the
Cult, and computers. You can see I really miss a discussion that hasn't
been completed, and go looking for it where it might be found.)

Yes, humanity has a habit of trying to exclude itself from nature, and
my take on that is that it is the origin of the angst that is sensed or
expressed in modern philosophy. There is, obviously, a lot of activity
which has the intention of destroying things, perhaps not to exclude
everything, and although this is not a philosophy there are some
philosophers paralleling it, Nietsche, for example. The impulse toward
destruction is expressed by poet e.e. cummings, "When man determined to
destroy himself", and cummings went on to express that man then took
some of these modern philosophies and did some hocus pocus with them.
But cummings agrees that there's a great tendency toward
self-destruction found in mankind.

By ***John Thiel <mailto:thiel@verizon.net>* on Saturday, March 04, 2006
- 10:43 am:

The concept of the Other as introduced by Sartre may bring one to a
consideration of autonomy /vs./ orgyism. Schopenhauer's "World as Will
and Idea" has two speculative stances, both of which are autonomous,
idea perhaps less than will. You seem to be saying that we project or
originate what we're working with, which is autonomy, but when we accept
another into our discussion it's orgiastic and no longer genuine
autonomy. (I think we should mention philosophers who have discussed
this matter, Descartes and Bishop Berkley were two of the originals.) So
perhaps two discussers generate some spirit, then the more the merrier,
but do they cause the original subject to become discursive? And when
contentions are about existence, they easily diffuse into a discussion
of something else. Or, by the same token, they don't. My point is the
discussion itself becoming the reality that's involved. When the
discussion is of existence's real nature, it may be the impulse of
existence that comes around to defend itself by making the discussion a
discursive one.

The factor of individuality is a large one in the consideration of the
entirety of the argument. If an individual doesn't consider himself to
exist, he won't consider anything else to exist, and any consideration
of him will be considering non-existence. Nihilism can spread.

When Credence Clearwater sings "Take me back down to Coo Waw Slow Yaw",
he is expressing a nihilistic urge. Coo Waw Slow Yaw is a state of
non-existence that is comfortable for him. He is speaking to his Muse in
the song. (An extended Smiley.)

By ***pc <javascript:alert('The e-mail address and profile information
for the individual posting this message is not available.')>* on
Saturday, March 04, 2006 - 03:38 pm:

Again: this thread continues here
<http://www.analogsf.com/discus/messages/1/1371.html?1141461858>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Add a Message


			This is a public posting area. If you do not have an account, enter
your full name into the "Username" box and leave the "Password" box
empty. Your e-mail address is optional.
Username: 		 
Password: 			
E-mail: 			

Administrator's Control Panel -- Board Moderators Only
Administer Page
<http://www.analogsf.com/forum/discus/board-admin-menuonly.cgi?cmd=start&startfrom=1/460>


